z
FACULTY OF MEDICINE AND ALLIED SCIENCES
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka
Saliyapura
Student Handbook
2025 

i
FACULTY OF MEDICINE AND ALLIED SCIENCES 
RAJARATA UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA
SALIYAPURA
STUDENT HANDBOOK
ACADEMIC YEAR - 2025 
Edition: November 2025

ii
The information in this handbook is correct at the time of publishing and is subjected to be revised and updated 
when necessary. The policies of MBBS undergraduate programme may change in the course of any given 
academic year. We, therefore, advice to refer the latest handbook to confirm policies and requirements in effect 
at any given time. Academic and examination schedules are subjected to restructuring from time to time and 
such changes will be informed before the start of the respective programme.
Edition November 2025
Editor Prof. H T W Weerakoon
Drawings by Prof. C S Paththinige
Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara
Photographs courtesy of Prof. C S Paththinige
Prof. S B Agampodi
Prof. K G A D Weerakoon
Mr. H A J P Herath
Cover design and page setting by Prof. K G A D Weerakoon
Address Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka
Jaffna Road, Saliyapura
Sri Lanka, 50008
Telephone number (+94) 252234462
Fax number (+94) 252234464
Web address http:/www.fmas.rjt.ac.lk/
 
 

iii
CONTENTS 
Page
Message from the Acting Vice Chancellor and the Dean, FMAS, RUSL 1
The Declaration of Geneva 2
1 Rajarata University of Sri Lanka 3
1.1 Organizational structure of the university 3
1.2 Faculties of the university 3
2 Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Saliyapura 5
2.1 Vision of the Faculty 8
2.2 Mission of the Faculty 8
2.3 Location and the ground plan 9
2.4 Working hours of the faculty 11
2.5 Academic and administrative structure 11
2.6 Administrative staff 12
2.6.1 Dean 12
2.6.2 Senior assistant registrar 12
2.6.3 Assistant bursar 12
2.7 Centres and Units to support academic and administrative activities 13
2.7.1 Student services unit 13
2.7.2 Maintenance and transport unit 13
2.7.3 Accounts branch 14
2.7.4 Examination division 14
2.7.5 Faculty quality assurance cell (FQAC) 14
2.7.6 Office of the higher degrees, research and publication committee (HDRPC) 15
2.7.7 Office of the ethics review committee (ERC) 15
2.8 Academic Departments 16
2.8.1 Department of Anatomy 16
2.8.2 Department of Biochemistry 18
2.8.3 Department of Physiology 19
2.8.4 Department of Microbiology 20
2.8.5 Department of Parasitology 22
2.8.6 Department of Pharmacology 23
2.8.7 Department of Pathology 24
2.8.8 Department of Community Medicine 25
2.8.9 Department of Forensic Medicine 27
2.8.10 Department of Family Medicine 28
2.8.11 Department of Medicine 29
2.8.12 Department of Surgery 30
2.8.13 Department of Paediatrics 31
2.8.14 Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics 32
2.8.15 Department of Psychiatry 33
2.8.16 Medical Education Unit (MEU) 34

iv
2.8.17 Radiology and Anaesthesiology Unit 36
2.9 Academic Supporting Centres 37
2.9.1 Library 37
2.9.2 Computer laboratory 38
3 Academic Programme 39
3.1 Academic programme coordinators 39
3.2 Programme learning outcomes (PLOs) of the medical course 40
3.3 Graduate profile 40
3.4 MBBS Academic Programme 43
3.4.1 Foundation course for MBBS programme 43
3.4.2 English language teaching programme 44
3.4.3 Year 1 and 2 preclinical phase 45
3.4.4 Year 3 and 4 paraclinical phase 52
3.4.5 Year 5 Final year programme – clinical phase 55
3.4.6 Assessment structure of MBBS program in FMAS 57
3.5 Criteria for awarding the Dean’s Award 60
3.6 Common merit list 63
3.7 Internship 63
4 Rules and regulations pertaining to examinations 63
4.1 General examination rules and regulations 63
4.2 Examination irregularities/offences and punishments 69
4.3 Rules of the MBBS programme 72
5 Discipline and conduct 74
5.1 General rules and regulations 74
5.2 Ragging 77
6 Services 78
6.1 Student counselling services 78
6.2 Health services 78
6.3 Accommodation 79
6.4 Financial support and scholarships 80
6.5 Library 80
6.6 Reading room 80
6.7 Internet services and computer laboratory 80
6.8 Faculty website 80
6.9 Faculty cell of the department of English language teaching 81
6.10 Cafeteria facilities 81
6.11 Drinking water facilities 81
6.12 Sports facilities 81
6.13 Cultural activities 81
6.14 Banking facilities 81

v
6.15 Postal services 82
6.16 Other facilities 82
6.17 Students’ union 82
6.18 Faculty academic mentoring program 82
6.19 Facilities for differently abled students 83
6.20 Career guidance 83
7 Recreation 84
8 Affiliated hospitals and field practice areas 85
8.1 Teaching hospital, Anuradhapura 85
8.2 Field practice areas, hospitals and centres 88
Annextures 
Annexture 
1
Application form for special leave 89
Annexture 
2
Prohibition of ragging and other forms of violence in educational institutions act, 
no. 20 of 1998
90
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

vi
LIST OF TABLES 
 
Table 1 Structure and timeline of the preclinical course 46
Table 2 Summarized assessment structure 47
Table 3 Mark-based grade point and grade 48
Table 4 Cumulative average mark-based cut-off levels of grade point for 
awarding classes
50
Table 5 Assessment in the personal and professional development stream 51
Table 6 Mark-based grade point and grade 52
Table 7 Cumulative average mark-based cut-off levels of grade point for 
awarding classes
54
Table 8 Assessment of Year 5: Final MBBS examination 56
Table 9 Criteria for awarding gold medals at final MBBS examination 56
Table 10 Assessment structure of the MBBS programme 57
Table 11 Marking scheme for Dean’s Awards 60
Table 12 Examination offenses and examination rule violation 70
Table 13 Summary Punishment for examination offences 71
Table 14 Student counsellors of FMAS 78
Table 15 List of consultants at THA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
85

vii
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1 Organizational structure of the Rajarata University Sri Lanka 4
Figure 2 Locations of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences and the 
Teaching Hospital Anuradhapura
9
Figure 3 Ground plan of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences 10
Figure 4 Academic and administrative structure of the Faculty of Medicine and 
Allied Sciences
11
Figure 5 Graduate profile of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences 42
Figure 6 Structure of the MBBS course 43
Important contacts 
Office of the Dean
+9425 2226276, deanoffice@med.rjt.ac.lk
Student Services
+9425 2226276, studentservices@med.rjt.ac.lk
Deputy Proctor 
Prof. W W Kumbukgolla, Department of Biochemistry, +9476 7079768
Senior Student Counsellor
Dr. S M B H Abeyrathna, Department of Psychiatry, +9471 8439070
Student Counsellor (male)
Dr. W S M K J Senanayake, Department of Surgery, +9477 209131
Student Counsellor (male) 
Dr. M I M Shuja, Department of Physiology, +9477 7002294
Student Counsellor (female)
Dr. W G S S Waiddyanatha, Department of Parasitology, +9470 2405577
Student Counsellor (female)
Dr. D M P L K Abeyrathna, Department of Family Medicine, +94771847280
Subwarden (male)
Mr. N D Jayasinghe, +9471 7332557
Subwarden (female)
Ms. D M J S Dissanayake +9471 4458653

1
MESSAGE FROM THE ACTING VICE CHANCELLOR AND DEAN 
 
It is with great pleasure that I extend a warm welcome to the 2025 intake of the Faculty of Medicine 
and Allied Sciences at Rajarata University of Sri Lanka. I congratulate each of you on your remarkable 
achievement in gaining admission to study medicine; a privilege earned through dedication, resilience, 
and exceptional effort, especially given the demanding national admission process.
By joining this faculty, you enter a vibrant academic community shaped by nineteen years of growth 
and enriched by the contributions of committed staff, passionate alumni, and talented students across 
the island. Situated in a region rich in historical, cultural, and spiritual heritage, the faculty offers an 
environment that fosters intellectual development, personal growth, and professional excellence.
Your journey towards becoming a medical professional begins here. In the coming years, you will grow 
into clinicians, scholars, educators, researchers, and future leaders. The profession demands integrity, 
responsibility, and compassion, and your training is designed to cultivate these values. Challenges are 
inevitable, but they offer opportunities for growth. Do not hesitate to seek guidance—our dedicated 
academic and administrative staff are here to support you throughout your undergraduate journey.
As you begin this new chapter, you may feel excited, uncertain, or overwhelmed. These feelings are 
natural. In time, the faculty will become your second home, where friendships develop, perspectives 
broaden, and identities strengthen. I also extend my sincere appreciation to your parents and guardians 
for entrusting us with your higher education.
Our faculty provides state-of-the-art facilities, a robust academic programme aligned with global 
standards, and a diverse and dedicated team of educators. I encourage you to make full use of these 
resources—academic and extracurricular. Engage in sports, cultural events, research, community 
service, and the many co-curricular opportunities available. These experiences will enrich your student 
life and help shape you into a well-rounded healthcare professional.
I urge you to study the Student Handbook carefully, as it outlines the policies, expectations, and 
opportunities that guide your daily academic and professional activities. Maintain close 
communication with faculty staff and the university administration at all times.
Medical education is a lifelong process that continues well beyond graduation. I trust you will develop 
enduring habits of inquiry, reflection, and continuous professional growth that define a compassionate 
and competent healer.
I wish you strength, wisdom, and fulfilment as you embark on this transformative journey. May your 
time at Rajarata University of Sri Lanka be enriching, memorable, and a strong foundation for your 
future service to our nation and the world.
Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara (MBBS, PgD, MPhil, MCGP, FRSPH) 
Acting Vice Chancellor
Dean
Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences 
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka
Mihintale, Sri Lanka

2
THE DECLARATION OF GENEVA 
 
The Declaration of Geneva is one of the World Medical Association’s (WMA) oldest policies adopted 
by the 2nd General Assembly in Geneva in 1948. It builds on the principles of the Hippocratic Oath and 
is now known as its modern version. It also remains one of the most consistent documents of the 
WMA. With only very few and careful revisions over many decades, it safeguards the ethical principles 
of the medical profession, relatively uninfluenced by zeitgeist and modernism. The Oath should not be 
read alone but in parallel with the more specific and detailed policies of the WMA especially the 
International Code of Medical Ethics, which followed the Declaration of Geneva as early as 1948.
Adopted by the 2nd General Assembly of the World Medical Association, Geneva, Switzerland, September 1948
and amended by the 22nd World Medical Assembly, Sydney, Australia, August 1968 and the 35th World Medical 
Assembly, Venice, Italy, October 1983 and the 46th WMA General Assembly, Stockholm, Sweden, September 
1994 and editorially revised by the 170th WMA Council Session, Divonne-les-Bains, France, May 2005 and the 
173rd WMA Council Session, Divonne-les-Bains, France, May 2006 and amended by the 68th WMA General 
Assembly, Chicago, United States, October 2017.
 The Physician’s Pledge 
AS A MEMBER OF THE MEDICAL PROFESSION:
• I SOLEMNLY PLEDGE to dedicate my life to the service of humanity;
• THE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF MY PATIENT will be my first consideration;
• I WILL RESPECT the autonomy and dignity of my patient;
• I WILL MAINTAIN the utmost respect for human life;
• I WILL NOT PERMIT considerations of age, disease or disability, creed, ethnic origin, 
gender, nationality, political affiliation, race, sexual orientation, social standing, or any other 
factor to intervene between my duty and my patient;
• I WILL RESPECT the secrets that are confided in me, even after the patient has died;
• I WILL PRACTISE my profession with conscience and dignity and in accordance with good 
medical practice;
• I WILL FOSTER the honour and noble traditions of the medical profession;
• I WILL GIVE my teachers, colleagues, and students the respect and gratitude that is their 
due;
• I WILL SHARE my medical knowledge for the benefit of the patient and the advancement of 
healthcare;
• I WILL ATTEND TO my health, well-being, and abilities in order to provide care of the 
highest standard;
• I WILL NOT USE my medical knowledge to violate human rights and civil liberties, even 
under threat;
• I MAKE THESE PROMISES solemnly, freely, and upon my honour.
World Medical Association 

3
The Rajarata University of Sri Lanka (RUSL) was established on 7th November 1995 under section 21 
of the university act no.16 of 1978 by amalgamating the resources of the affiliated university colleges 
in the Central, North Western and North Central provinces. The university is located at Mihintale, a 
world heritage site, 14 km from the city of Anuradhapura and a well-known seat of l earning several 
centuries before the beginning of the Christian era. 
1.1 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSITY 
The vice chancellor is the academic and administrative head of the university, and the vice chancellor
is assisted by deans of the faculties, registrar and bursar (Figure 1).
Chancellor Ven. Pandith Ethalwatunuwawe Gnanathilake Thero (BA Hons, MA)
Acting Vice Chancellor Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara (MBBS, PgD, MPhil, MCGP, FRSPH)
Registrar Ms. S C Herath (BA, PgDip, MSc)
Bursar Mr. S S K Godakumbura (BBMgt (Acc sp), HNDip (Acc), MBA, MPA, 
MAAT, APFA)
1.2 FACULTIES OF THE UNIVERSITY 
The university consists of the following six faculties each headed by a dean who is the academic and 
administrative head of each faculty.
• Faculty of Agriculture (Puliyankulama)
• Faculty of Applied Sciences (Mihintale)
• Faculty of Management Studies (Mihintale)
• Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences (Saliyapura)
• Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities (Mihintale)
• Faculty of Technology (Mihintale)
 1. RAJARATA UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA (RUSL) 

4
 
 
Figure 1: Organisational structure of the Rajarata University of Sri Lanka
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrar 
Senate subcommittees Senate Vice Chancellor Council Council subcommittees
Assistant 
Internal Auditor
Deans of Librarian
Faculties
Panel of 
Lecturers
Assistant 
Registrars
Assistant 
Bursars
Heads of 
Departments
Assistant 
Librarians 
(in Faculties)
Directors of Units 
and Centres
Deputy 
Registrar
Assistant 
Registrars in 
Administrative 
Branches
Works
Engineer
Curator
Chief 
Marshal
Assistant
Statistician
Bursar
Deputy 
Bursar
Assistant 
Bursar/Supplies

5
 
 
 
Establishment and background
The Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences (FMAS), RUSL was established in July 2006, under 
section 21 of the university act no.16 of 1978. The first batch of medical undergraduates in FMAS 
included 171 students from 22 districts and was registered on 11th September 2006. Since then, 19 
batches have been admitted to the faculty. At present, FMAS enrols around 210 undergraduates per 
batch for the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree programme. Thirteen
batches of students have graduated to date and are serving the country as medical doctors. Of these 
graduates, more than 410 are enrolled in or completed postgraduate programmes by November 2025.
The faculty received a B grade in January 2020 in the programme review conducted by the quality 
assurance council of the university grants commission, Sri Lanka. Considering its short history 
compared to other medical faculties in Sri Lanka, this achievement of the faculty is commendable. 
Geographical location and historical context
The faculty is situated in a unique geographical location in Anuradhapura which is the largest district 
in Sri Lanka. Anuradhapura has a rich history of more than 2,500 years and was the capital of Sri Lanka 
from the 4th century BC until the beginning of the 11th century AD. During this period, it remained one 
of the most stable centres of political power and urban life in South Asia. Anuradhapura is a treasure 
trove of archaeological sites including those of ancient medical heritage and the sacred city of 
Anuradhapura is a UNESCO world heritage site. The location of the faculty is about 8 km from the 
Teaching Hospital Anuradhapura (THA) and 13 km from the main university at Mihintale.
Faculty infrastructure
Academic departments teaching the first four years of the undergraduate medical programme are in 
Saliyapura premises and the five departments conducting teaching for the final year are located within 
the professorial unit of FMAS in THA. The work on the para-clinical building commenced in 2008 and 
the relevant departments were established at the new complex in May 2010. The building of the 
professorial units, wards, clinics, and teaching areas was commenced in 2009 and completed in 
February 2012. Further, the construction work of the new pre-clinical building is recently completed.
Governance and administration
The dean is the academic and administrative head of the faculty, and he is assisted by the heads of the 
departments, the librarian, the senior assistant registrar, and the assistant bursar. The faculty consists 
 2. FACULTY OF MEDICINE AND ALLIED SCIENCES (FMAS) 

6
of around 53 permanent academic staff members and 80 non-academic staff members. The faculty 
board of FMAS, RUSL consists of the dean of the faculty; all permanent senior professors, professors, 
senior lecturers, lecturers of the departments of study comprising the faculty; two members elected by 
the lecturers (probationary) of the faculty from among such lecturers; two members of the permanent 
staff attached to the faculty who are imparting instructions and not referred above, elected from among 
such staff members; two students elected by the students of the faculty from among their number and 
three persons not being members of the staff of the university elected by the faculty board from among 
persons of eminence in the areas of study relevant to the faculty. Also, the senior assistant registrar is 
in attendance. Further, the probationary lecturers and the assistant bursar attend the faculty board 
meeting of the FMAS on invitation. The board meets monthly to exercise, perform and discharge its 
powers, duties and functions. 
Academic programme
At present, FMAS conducts the undergraduate programme offering MBBS degree. The MBBS 
programme includes 10 semesters and is conducted over five years. The undergraduate course is 
broadly divided into four phases depending on the subject content: foundation for medical studies, 
preclinical, paraclinical, and clinical. Each of the above phases of the study is coordinated by an 
academic appointed by the faculty board. The foundation course is designed to make students familiar 
with the university setting, to improve their life skills and learning skills, and to make them aware of 
the basic aspects of medical ethics and professionalism. 
Furthermore, the lessons are studded with medical English as well as general English. During the 
preclinical phase, the relevant departments guide to acquire fundamental knowledge and the skills in 
assessment of the normal structure and functions of the human body and the basis of dysfunction. The 
paraclinical phase of the MBBS course deals with the theoretical and practical aspects of abnormal 
structure and function of the human body and the evaluation and management of those. The clinical 
phase provides comprehensive clinical training to prepare the graduates to deliver safe and efficient 
care to the patients. 
The clinical training programme of the faculty is primarily carried out at THA; the third-largest hospital 
in the country. THA is equipped with modern diagnostic and management facilities. The academic 
staff of all clinical departments provides services as honorary consultants at THA. In addition, 
Teaching hospital Polonnaruwa, is also involved in 3rd and 4th year clinical training programmes. The 
extensive public health areas used for community training consists of a socio-economically diverse 
population that enables comprehensive primary and preventive care training for the undergraduates. 
The above training is linked with extensive community services to ensure that students obtain handson experience in public health practice. 
Academic departments and units
The faculty comprises seventeen academic departments and units. The pre-clinical phase of the study 
is carried out by the departments of Anatomy, Biochemistry, and Physiology. The paraclinical 
departments include the departments of Community Medicine, Family Medicine, Forensic Medicine, 
Microbiology, Parasitology, Pathology, and Pharmacology. The clinical programme is carried out by 

7
the departments of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Medicine, Paediatrics, Psychiatry, and Surgery. 
Further, there are two academic units; the Medical Education Unit, which provides the support and 
guidance for continuing professional development of the staff and curriculum-related matters, and the 
Radiology and Anaesthesiology unit which supports undergraduate training and patient care services 
of professorial unit THA. 
Curriculum, assessment and teaching-learning strategies
The FMAS curriculum aligns with the vision of the faculty and meets Sri Lanka qualifications 
framework (SLQF) Level 7 and subject benchmark statements (SBS) in medicine requirements. Major 
revisions occurred in 2014 and 2016, introducing a system-based preclinical curriculum, integrated 
teaching, and dedicated streams for personal and professional development and research in medicine. 
Family Medicine was added as a separate discipline in 2021. Further refinements from 2020–2024 led 
to minor revisions to the contents of the course units/modules, learning outcomes, structure, and 
teaching-learning strategies and assessments in different disciplines and the updated curriculum 
implemented from the 2024 intake.
The MBBS programme is structured into four phases with core modules and streams and follows an 
outcome-based education student-centred learning (OBE-SCL) approach. Intended learning outcomes 
(ILOs) of the different disciplines, modules and streams including the clinical and field appointments 
are aligned with faculty outcomes and assessment processes.
Diverse student-friendly academic teaching-learning activities such as clinical case discussions, 
fieldwork, LMS-based teaching and group activities promote self-directed learning, collaboration, 
critical thinking, communication, and teamwork. Assessments are transparent, fair, and aligned to 
graduate competencies.
Learning outcomes
At the end of the MBBS programme of FMAS, RUSL, the graduate is expected to possess knowledge 
and competencies regarding scientific knowledge and skills essential for medical practice. 
Furthermore, the faculty places a strong emphasis on the attitudes, ethics, professionalism and social, 
cultural and environmental perspectives of health. The undergraduates of FMAS are highly encouraged 
to improve their interpersonal relationships, leadership skills, problem-solving abilities and teamwork. 
Continuing professional development, evidence-based medicine, health promotion and research are 
integral components of a graduate of FMAS. 
Supportive academic facilities and services
The medical library and computer laboratory support high-quality medical education. The faculty has 
been using an online learning management system (LMS) to ensure an effective teaching-learning 
environment. Examinations are coordinated by the examinations division with relevant departments, 
while the student services unit facilitates a wide range of student needs. Numerous centres and units
including the accounts branch, English language teaching cell, faculty quality assurance cell (FQAC), 
maintenance and transport, office of the ethics review office, office of the higher degrees, research and 
publication committee, and skills and research labs support academic and administrative functions. 

8
FMAS also offers student accommodation for the students who fulfil the eligibility criteria, academic 
mentoring, counselling, financial assistance, health services, banking and postal facilities, cafeteria and 
printing services, reading rooms, and auditoriums. Facilities for cultural activities, sports, and students 
with disabilities are also provided.
Quality assurance
Quality assurance is a key component of FMAS, integrated across teaching, research, and outreach. 
All departments have adopted core best practices, with Quality assurance included as a regular agenda 
item in departmental and faculty board meetings. The establishment of the FQAC has strengthened 
the administration of quality assurance, enabling systematic programme evaluations through internal 
monitoring, reviews, and graduate tracer studies to support continuous improvement. A faculty policy 
document has also been developed to guide programme management and encourage academic staff 
to use evidence-based knowledge and innovative technologies in teaching and learning.
Staff development and research
The faculty supports continuous professional development for academic and non-academic staff 
through training opportunities, financial assistance, conferences, seminars, workshops, and 
postgraduate programmes. It offers MPhil and PhD degrees, and six departments are accredited as 
postgraduate training centres by the postgraduate institute of medicine (PGIM). The faculty also 
maintains a strong research culture led by high-caliber scientists and global experts.
Future directions
The faculty continually strives to uplift the standards of the institution by paving the way for students 
to reach their full potential. The faculty has strengthened its human resources and other infrastructure 
facilities during the past decade. Throughout the short history of the faculty, our graduates have 
secured excellent rankings in the common merit order and excelled in various postgraduate courses. 
Moreover, our undergraduates have brought pride to the faculty through their achievements in 
extracurricular activities.
2.1 VISION OF THE FACULTY 
To be the premier institution in Sri Lanka in the training of health professionals.
2.2 MISSION OF THE FACULTY 
The Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences is committed to the training of health professionals with
value of highest ethical conduct, professionalism, social accountability and mutual respect in an 
environment of excellence. This would involve holistic undergraduate or postgraduate education in 
local and global promotive, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative health care and research
with local, national and global perspectives, ensuring the graduate capabilities in proceeding through
any avenue in medicine further with a desire for continuing education while recognizing responsibilities 
for the betterment of the health of people at all levels in Sri Lanka.

9
2.3 LOCATION AND THE GROUND PLAN 
The faculty is located in Anuradhapura – Jaffna main road, about 7 km from Anuradhapura city and 
around 15 km from the main campus in Mihintale (Figure 2). The ground plan of the FMAS at 
Saliyapura premises is given in Figure 3.
Figure 2: Locations of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences at Saliyapura and Teaching Hospital 
Anuradhapura

10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Ground plan of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences at Saliyapura
A Administrative block- Ground floor: Accounts 
branch, Students’ services unit, ERC office; 
1
st Floor: Deans office, SAR office, 
B Ground floor: Study area
1
st floor: Biochemistry laboratory (old)
C
E
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
Q
R
S
SQ
T
U
V
W
Y
Computer center
Faculty stores
Pavilion, Gymnasium
Preclinical building 
Cadaver storage unit 
Arts room
Reading room
Library
Canteen
New lecture theatre
Vijayabahu hostel
Cadaver preservation and storage unit 
Students’ hostel
Security officers’ points
Staff quarters
Sanitation workers’ room
Maintenance Unit
Bus parking shed
Students washrooms
BOC ATM
D Prof. Malkanthi Chandrasekara Auditorium
F Paraclinical building- Ground floor: Dept.s of 
Forensic Medicine, Microbiology, Parasitology, 
Pharmacology, Students health center; 1st floor: 
Dept.s of Biochemistry, Community Medicine, 
Pathology, Multidisciplinary laboratory; 2nd floor: 
Dept. of Family Medicine, Skills laboratory, Prof. 
Sarath Edirisinghe Auditorium, Tutorial rooms, 
Research laboratories
P New Preclinical building- Ground floor: Dept. of 
Anatomy; 1st floor: Dept. of Biochemistry; 
2
nd floor: Dept. of Physiology, 3rd floor: Dean’s and 
SAR office, Anatomy Museum, Histology lab, 
Research lab complex, Animal house; 4th floor: 
Examination Hall, Examination unit, Medical 
Education Unit, 5th floor: Auditorium
X Post office
Z Milk bar
 
 
 

11
2.4 WORKING HOURS OF THE FACULTY 
A working week of the faculty is from Monday to Friday, and the administrative office and departments 
are open from 8.00 am to 4.15 pm on these days. Lectures are conducted from 8.00 am to 5.00 pm on 
weekdays. Clinical training time schedules vary with the appointment.
2.5 ACADEMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE 
The dean is the academic and administrative head of the faculty, and he is assisted by the heads of the 
departments, senior assistant registrar and assistant bursar (Figure 4).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Academic and administrative structure of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
 
 
 

12
2.6 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF 
 
Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara (MBBS, PgD, MPhil, MCGP, FRSPH)
Acting Vice Chancellor RUSL, Dean FMAS
Senior Lecturer in Family Medicine
Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Saliyapura
Phone: +9425 2234462, Fax: +9425 2234464
Email: dean@med.rjt.ac.lk
 
 
Ms. R. Kesavan (HNDA, MPAM(CoL))
Senior Assistant Registrar, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Saliyapura
Phone: +9425 2234463
 
 
 
Mr. R M Y S S Bandara (BBA (Hons) in Finance, Passed finalist of AAT Sri Lanka)
Assistant Bursar, Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Saliyapura
Phone: +9425 2226253
Office of the Dean 
Clerical staff 
Mr. K B U Bandara Senior staff management assistant
Ms. A A C D Abeysinghe Management assistant
Ms. R K W Namalwewa Management assistant
Ms. A R T K Nawarathna Management assistant
Ms. T K Senevirathne Management assistant
 
Support staff 
Mr. S A S Sugathadasa Laboratory attendant, In charge of the professorial unit auditorium
Mr. R G D N Galappaththi Work aid
Contact information Phone: +9425 2226276, Fax: +9425 2234464
Email: deanoffice@med.rjt.ac.lk 
 
2.6.1 Dean 
2.6.2 Senior Assistant Registrar
2.6.3 Assistant Bursar

13
2.7 CENTRES AND UNITS TO SUPPORT ACADEMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE 
ACTIVITIES 
2.7.1 STUDENT SERVICES UNIT 
The uppermost function of the student services unit (SSU) is focusing on the creation of a device to 
facilitate the students of the FMAS to achieve a higher quality medical education. SSU of FMAS 
provides a wide range of services for the convenience of the students to achieve the above objective. 
Therefore, it works in collaboration with several centres and units of the faculty. SSU provides the 
following services:
• Distribution of student handbooks and record books
• Arranging and distributing student identity cards
• Maintaining the personal files of the students
• Preparing students’ albums
• Preparing and issuing studentship letters
• Issuing progress reports
• Coordinating Mahapola scholarship and bursary-related activities
• Coordinating the arrangements related to clinical appointments
• Preparing and issuing student registers for clinical appointments
• Coordinating the activities related to student hostel facilities
• Display academic and clinical schedules of the faculty on the notice board
• Calling entry forms and issuing the admissions for all main examinations
Staff 
Ms. N L Rathnayake Management assistant
Ms. M L L Jayasundara Work aid
Mr. J M C P Ranathunga Work aid
Mr. A L G N Kumara Laboratory attendant
Contact information Phone: +9425 2226276, Email: studentservices@med.rjt.ac.lk
2.7.2 MAINTENANCE UNIT 
Conducting and coordinating maintenance work of the faculty and provision of transport services for 
students* and staff* are the main functions of the unit (*with prior approval from the SAR).
 
Staff
Mr. H G S Pushpalal Laboratory attendant, In charge of the maintenance unit
Mr. R M Jayamaha Postmortem labourer
Mr. A V C Nishantha Work aid
 
 
 

14
2.7.3 ACCOUNTS BRANCH 
The accounts branch coordinates and conducts all the finance-related services of the faculty. 
 
Staff 
Mr. H M A Abeyrathna Senior staff management assistant, Shroff
Mr. J H Kodikara Staff management assistant, Storekeeper
Ms. H M H E K Hellarawa Management assistant
Ms. R M L M K R Bambaragama Work aid
Ms. D M S M Rathnasekara Bookkeeper
 
Contact information Phone: +9425 2226253
2.7.4 EXAMINATION DIVISION 
The examination division of FMAS organizes the undergraduate examinations with the assistance of 
the departments. The division carries out the necessary notifications for staff and students at the time 
of each examination. Also, the examination division provides various student-related services such as 
issuing academic transcripts. Further, the examination division maintains the educational commission 
for foreign medical graduates (ECFMG) medical school web portal (EMSWP) to provide services to 
its graduates related to credentials verification, status verification, and electronic residency application 
service® (ERAS®).
 
Dean Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara (MBBS, PgD, MPhil, MCGP, FRSPH)
Director, Examinations Prof. J A A S Jayaweera (MBBS, MSc., MPhil, Dip. Micro, MD 
Medical Microbiology, FRCPath [Micro])
Senior Assistant registrar Ms. R Kesavan (HNDA, MPAM(CoL))
Management assistants Ms. H M H S Nawarathne
Ms. D T de Silva
Contact information Phone: +94 252227173, Email: exams@med.rjt.ac.lk
 
2.7.5 FACULTY QUALITY ASSURANCE CELL (FQAC) 
In recognition of the importance of quality enhancement of the university education in a formal, 
transparent and accountable manner, and responding to the global a nd local trends in quality 
assurance, FMAS established its FQAC. All quality-related aspects of the academic programme, 
research, services and environment of the faculty come under the wings of FQAC. It represents all 
stakeholders for quality within the faculty, including academic staff, medical students, administrative 
staff and non-academic staff. It implements corrective actions or makes recommendations to uplift the 
quality of the faculty where necessary.
As a part of reviewing the quality of the teaching programme and administrative activities of FMAS, 
FQAC obtains regular feedback from all the stakeholders through an online feedback-obtaining 

15
mechanism. As a medical undergraduate and as a main stakeholder in the FMAS system, you play a 
key role in feedback-providing procedure. To review the quality of teaching, academic programme, 
examinations, administration, and the facilities provided by the faculty, FQAC will request you to 
complete different types of online feedback forms at different time points of the academic programme. 
All these structured feedback forms and the guidelines to complete the forms will be uploaded to the 
LMS and you will be informed when the feedback forms are available in LMS. Timely completion and 
submission of these evaluation forms is one of your main responsibilities and FQAC highly values your 
feedback and constructive suggestions for the improvements of the quality of the faculty. Additionally, 
FQAC welcomes your comments or suggestions about the quality of any of the activities conducted 
by the faculty at any time. We request you use the FQAC email given below for such communications. 
FQAC assures your confidentiality of such communications, or your responses/comments provided
through feedback forms. The FMAS expects your fullest support for the implementation of all the 
decisions taken by the FQAC to maintain high-quality standards within the faculty. 
Coordinator Dr. P R S R J Bandara (MBBS, MPhil)
Contact information Email: iqac@med.rjt.ac.lk
 
 
2.7.6 OFFICE OF THE HIGHER DEGREES, RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION 
COMMITTEE (HDRPC) 
FMAS offers the following higher degrees in selected areas of study:
Doctoral Degrees 1. Doctor of Science (DSc)
2. Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
Master Degrees 1. Master of Philosophy (MPhil)
Chairperson Prof. N K A Silva (MBBS, MPhil, PhD, FRSPH, FRCP Edin)
Secretary Prof. S P A S Senadheera (BSc Hons, PhD)
Staff Mr. L A D H R Wijayathunga (BMS in HRM, MHRM, AHRP, affiliate 
CIPM)
Contact information Phone: +94 252053633, Email: hdrpc@med.rjt.ac.lk
2.7.7 OFFICE OF THE ETHICS REVIEW COMMITTEE (ERC) 
ERC provides independent guidance, advice and decisions on health research or other specific 
research protocols involving human subjects. The primary objectives of the ERC, FMAS, RUSL are to 
protect the physical, psychological, social welfare, rights, dignity and safety of human participants used 
in research while taking into account the interests and needs of researchers and the integrity of FMAS, 
RUSL. The ERC facilitates ethical research through efficient and effective review and monitoring 

16
processes, to promote ethical standards of human research and to review research following the 
guidelines of the forum of ethics review committees in Sri Lanka (FERCSL Guidelines) and relevant 
national and international guidelines.
ERC has been a recognized ethics review committee by the Ministry of Health, Sri Lanka, since 2013. 
In May 2017, it was accredited by the subcommittee on clinical trials (SCOCT) of the national 
medicines regulatory authority (NMRA), Sri Lanka as the seventh ERC in Sri Lanka which can review 
and approve clinical trials. Further, ERC received SIDCER-FERCAP recognition in 2017. ERC is an 
institutional member of the FERCSL, and it is registered at the U.S. department of health and human 
services as an institutional review board. Information related to the application procedure and ethics 
review evaluation process is available on the ERC website (http://www.rjt.ac.lk/med/index.php/
ethic-review-committee). 
Chairperson Dr. M G R S S Gunathilake (MBBS, MSc, MPhil)
Vice-chairperson Dr. T V R Perera (BAMS, MSc)
Secretary Prof. Y P J N Warnasekera (MBBS, MSc, MPH, PhD, FRSPH)
Staff Mr. L A D H R Wijayathunga (BMS in HRM, MHRM, AHRP, affiliate 
CIPM)
Contact information Phone: +94 252053633, Email: erc@med.rjt.ac.lk
2.8 ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS 
 
The faculty comprises seventeen academic departments and units. The pre-clinical phase of the study 
is carried out by the departments of Anatomy, Biochemistry, and Physiology. The paraclinical 
departments include the departments of Community Medicine, Family Medicine, Forensic Medicine, 
Microbiology, Parasitology, Pathology, and Pharmacology. The clinical programme is carried out by 
the departments of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Medicine, Paediatrics, Psychiatry, and Surgery. 
Further, there are two academic units; the Medical Education Unit, which provides the support and 
guidance for continuing professional development of the staff and curriculum-related matters, and the 
Radiology and Anaesthesiology unit which supports undergraduate training and patient care services 
of professorial unit THA. 
The department of Anatomy was officially founded in September 2006 and is one of th e major 
departments of the faculty playing a pivotal role in preparing students for higher medical education. 
2.8.1 Department of Anatomy (Phone: +9425 2234465)

17
Since its early start with 165 students, the department has expanded to a nationally competitive widely 
respected, and recognized institution. Presently, the department handles nearly 420 students per 
annum. The basic objectives are the acquisition of comprehensive knowledge in anatomy and skills 
that would eventually be reflected in the clinical domain. Teaching anatomy has also been modified 
during the past few decades. There has been more concentration on encouraging student-centered
learning, problem-based learning, and the introduction of applied aspects of Anatomy knowledge with 
interdisciplinary integration.
The department of Anatomy features the following:
Dissection laboratory
Dissection of the human body is a significant means to learn the subject of Anatomy and the 
department provides dissection facilities to students under the supervision of demonstrators. The new 
preclinical building has a well-equipped gross anatomy dissection laboratory with an infrastructure that 
can accommodate nearly 220 students at a time.
Histology laboratory
The laboratory is equipped with 70 modern binocular microscopes with slide preparation facilities that 
help students understand the microscopic structure of human organs and the organization of tissues. 
A separate microscope is provided to each student for their practical assignments. The department 
has a vast range of histology slides including high-tech slides from the laboratory of North Carolina 
(approx. 1500 slides).
Cadaver preservation laboratory
The cadaver preservation laboratory is one of the featured sections in the department as it has stateof-the-art cadaver coolers and preservation tanks.
The anatomy museum
The museum houses a large number of preserved cadaveric specimens of human body parts, models 
of the human body, bones, and skeletal models, and a range of radiological images to facilitate the 
process of students’ learning. Students find these museum specimens helpful in consolidating what they 
learned during other teaching-learning activities. The museum is not open to the public and the use of 
cameras or other image-recording devices is strictly prohibited. These rules exist to provide a healthy 
learning environment and to show respect for the diseased.
Furthermore, the department provides the following services:
• Body donation programme
• Clinical genetics services to patients referred from THA, GH-Polonnaruwa, GH-Vavuniya, etc.
• Birth defects prevention programme in the Anuradhapura district
• Minor trauma care unit treats a wide variety of problems including cuts and grazes, sprains and 
strains, bites and stings, etc.
• Providing anatomical specimens for educational programs organized by the faculty, the 
university and other educational institutions (e.g., schools) in the region
• Preservation and mounting of human specimens required for the faculty 
• Providing support to medical graduates who are preparing for their postgraduate examinations 

18
 
Head 
Prof. C S Paththinige 
(MBBS, MSc, PGCert (MedEd), MMEd)) Professor in Anatomy
 
Academic staff 
Dr. H B D Jeewantha (MBBS, MSc, PhD) Senior Lecturer Grade II
Dr. (Ms.) K I S Koralegedara (MBBS, MPhil) Lecturer and Registrar in Radiology 
 
Visiting academic staff 
Dr. W Abeysekara (MBBS, MS) Senior Lecturer and Consultant Surgeon
Dr. (Ms.) C L De Silva (MBBS MD) Senior Lecturer and Consultant Radiologist
Technical officers Support staff 
Mrs. K N Liyanage Mr. S M R P Bandara
 Ms. W A N Siriwardhana
 Mr. D P L Thilakarathne
Mr. E M Janaka
Management assistant 
Mr. R M D T Ranasinghe
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biochemistry ‘the chemistry of life’ explores the chemical processes within and related to living 
organisms bringing biology and chemistry together. Sound knowledge of the principles of biochemical 
mechanisms involved in maintaining the integrity and homeostasis of living organisms provides the 
foundation to explore the basis of disease, diagnosis, and management. Department of Biochemistry 
was established as a preclinical department parallel to the establishment of the FMAS on the 11th of 
September 2006. Since its inception, the department of Biochemistry has been highly committed to 
teaching-learning activities of the medical undergraduate programme, postgraduate teaching and 
supervision, and medical research. The core of our undergraduate programme includes cellular 
biochemistry, human genetics, human nutrition, and clinical and applied biochemistry, setting up a 
prime platform towards forming a qualified medical doctor. We conduct lectures, laboratory-based 
practical classes, small group discussions, problem-based learning, student presentations and seminars. 
2.8.2 Department of Biochemistry (Phone: +9425 2234461)
Staff

19
Department of Biochemistry provides facilities for postgraduate research degrees and conducts special 
biochemical investigations requested by the THA in addition to the basic biochemical investigations. 
The department carries out research activities, particularly in the fields of analytical biochemistry, 
human nutrition, human immunology, and molecular diagnostics. It is equipped with a well-established 
student laboratory, postgraduate research laboratory, and cell culture laboratory to facilitate teaching 
and research activities to meet the evolving needs in the field. Research activities conducted by the 
department actively contribute to the advancement of biomedical knowledge, particularly in the fields 
of analytical biochemistry, human nutrition, proteomics, immunity, and molecular diagnostics. 
 
Head 
Dr. R M I S K Senavirathna Senior Lecturer Grade I
 (BSc Hons, MSc, MPhil, PhD) 
 
Academic staff 
Prof. W W Kumbukgolla (BSc Hons, MPhil, PhD) Chair Professor of Biochemistry
Prof. S P A S Senadheera (BSc Hons, MPhil, PhD) Professor in Biochemistry 
Prof. H TW Weerakoon Professor in Biochemistry
(MBBS, PGDip (App. Stat.), MPhil, PhD) 
Dr. P R S R J Bandara (MBBS, MPhil) Senior Lecturer Grade II
 
Technical officer Support staff 
Mr. W M B R S Gunathilaka Mr. I S Aluthgedara
Mr. D L Jayarathne 
Management assistant 
Ms. L J Somapala
Physiology is one of the fundamental sciences taught to medical students during the first two years of 
their academic programme. The aim is to gain a comprehensive knowledge of the normal structure 
and function of the human body. Department of Physiology is one of the departments established at 
the founding of the faculty itself in September 2006. The department includes a laboratory, well 
equipped with instruments to assess human physiological functions, in addition to general facilities. 
The teaching of Physiology is carried out via lectures, practical classes, tutorials, clinical case 
Staff
2.8.3 Department of Physiology (Phone: +9425 2234412)

20
discussions, clinical demonstrations, textbooks, and online material. Self-learning by the students is 
strongly promoted. The teaching is carried out system-wise modules under general and respiratory 
physiology, cardiovascular physiology, gastrointestinal and renal physiology, endocrinology and 
reproductive physiology, and neurophysiology. Furthermore, the department provides the following 
services:
• Basic clinical assessment of the physiological functions - clinical system examinations, 
anthropometric measurements of the body, tests of vision, tests of hearing, body temperature 
measurement, blood pressure measurement, peak flowmetry 
• Advanced clinical assessment of the physiological functions - assessment of lung functions with 
spirometry and impulse oscillometry, haematological tests, and electrocardiography (ECG)
 
 
Head 
Dr. A M M V Kumari (MBBS, PhD) Senior Lecturer Grade II 
 
Academic staff 
Dr. H E C S Kumara (MBBS, MPhil) Senior Lecturer Grade II
Dr. R M S I Rajapakse Senior Lecturer Grade II
 (MBBS, MSc (Nanoscience), MPhil)
Dr. H M N C Herath (MBBS, MD) Lecturer
Dr. M I M Shuja (MBBS) Lecturer (Probationary)
Dr. L S Wijayarathna (MBBS) Lecturer (Probationary) 
 
Technical officers Support staff 
Ms. H M K A Jayatissa Mr. W A L Nandika
Ms. J N Muthunayaka Mr. W W Haththottuwegama
Management assistant 
Ms. J M C S Jayaweera
The department of Microbiology established in July 2008 is responsible for teaching undergraduates 
in medical microbiology and conducting research related to infectious diseases. The department is 
housed on the ground floor and second floor of the para-clinical building. It comprises a well-equipped 
Staff
2.8.4 Department of Microbiology (Phone: +9425 2227033)

21
diagnostic laboratory, a research laboratory that meets national and international standards, and office 
rooms for academic and non-academic staff. The basic objectives are to provide an understanding of 
the biology of pathogenic microorganisms, the interaction between the organisms and their human 
hosts, and available treatment and preventive measures. This knowledge will guide the students to 
provide proper diagnosis and advice on treatment and prevention to the general public, as future 
medical practitioners. The services provided by the department of Microbiology are;
• performing microbiological investigations on request from hospitals and health facilities in the 
North Central province.
• clinical advice on problems related to diagnosis and management of infection to hospitals in the 
North Central province of Sri Lanka that lack access to clinical microbiology consultant service.
• consultant service on infection control to THA and state hospitals in the North Central province 
when required.
• providing resource personnel for conducting laboratory training workshops.
• training of newly recruited technical officers in universities and government institutes. 
Head 
Dr. M G R S S Gunathilake (MBBS, MSc, MPhil) Senior Lecturer Grade II
 
Academic staff 
Prof. J A A S Jayaweera Professor in Microbiology
 (MBBS, MSc., MPhil, Dip. Micro,
 MD Medical Microbiology, FRCPath [Micro])
Ms. S C Illapperuma (BSc, MSc, MPhil) Senior Lecturer Grade I
Dr. J M D D Jayasundara (MBBS, PgD, MPhil) Senior Lecturer Grade II
Prof. N P Sunilchnadra Emeritus Professor in Microbiology
(BVSc, MPhil, PhD, FSLCVS, FSLCM (h.c) FNASL)
 
Technical officers Support staff 
Ms. H R Kumari Mr. W G P M Thilakarathna
Staff assistant 
Mr. S M E S Galagoda
 
 
Staff

22
In an era of intense human mobilization and critical environmental changes taking place, leading to 
faster expansion of disease boundaries, tropical and parasitic diseases have become a significant cause 
of human morbidity across the globe. Hence, it is vital to equip medical professionals with the capacity 
to address these evolving challenges. As such, we focus on educational and research activities to 
ensure that these demands are met. The department of Parasitology has its own departmental space 
with fully equipped diagnostic and research laboratories for students. In addition, the department 
maintains a multi-disciplinary laboratory for undergraduate teaching and an animal house to facilitate 
laboratory animal research.
We, the department of Parasitology, conduct both undergraduate and postgraduate teaching-learning 
activities and research projects of regional, national, and global significance. Currently, we are teaching 
and supervising medical undergraduates, master's (MPhil), and doctoral (MD and PhD) postgraduate 
students. The department is strongly committed to training medical undergraduates with knowledge, 
attitudes, and practice skills on tropical diseases with a particular emphasis on medical parasitology, 
tropical diseases and global health, toxinology, and entomology. 
The department has developed a strong research focus since its establishment, especially in areas of 
toxinology and medical parasitology, by community-based studies, clinical studies and experimental 
laboratory studies, establishing collaborations with key local and foreign institutions. The department 
staff has formed the Rajarata tropical disease research group, establishing research collaborations with 
globally recognized researchers on medical parasitology and toxinology.
In addition, the department provides diagnostic services related to tropical diseases to the national 
healthcare system. Novel and innovative approaches towards the development of affordable 
diagnostics for tropical diseases have also become a key focus of the department. The department 
provides service functions to the THA, to all hospitals in the North Central province, and to the private 
sector in the form of special investigations, identification of specimens and histology slides, expert 
advice, and assistance to national and local parasite control programs. 
The department also conducts outreach educational programs for school children and teachers in the 
North Central Province, while academics are regularly called upon to deliver talks and lectures in 
various parts of the island. 
The department is also associated with the cutaneous leishmaniasis control programme of the North 
Central Province conducted by the regional director of health services office of Anuradhapura. This 
2.8.5 Department of Parasitology (Phone: +9425 2226388)

23
includes training medical laboratory technicians and public health field officers to diagnose cutaneous 
leishmaniasis in resource-poor settings.
 
Head 
Prof. N K A Silva Chair Professor of Parasitology
 (MBBS, MPhil, PhD, FRCP Edin, FNASSL)
 
Academic staff 
Prof. K G A D Weerakoon Professor in Parasitology
 (MBBS, PGDip (App. Stat.), MPhil, PhD, FRCP Edin)
Dr. W G S S Waiddyanatha (MBBS, PhD) Senior Lecturer Grade II
 
Visiting academic staff 
Prof. J S Edirisinghe (MBBS, MSc, PhD, MD) Visiting Professor
Prof. D J Weilgama (BVSc, MVSc, PhD) Visiting Professor
 
 
Technical officers Support staff 
Mr. W M P K Gamage Mr. T W Elpitiya
Mr. R D N Pathirana
Mr. H A N S Hettiarachchi
 
Management assistant Work aid
Ms. D M S M Dissanayake Mr. D M R L Dissanayake
The department of Pharmacology was founded in 2006. It was originally established with one visiting 
professor (Prof. R L Jayakody) and two probationary lecturers. The department evolved rapidly to 
face timely important challenges in the area. 
One of the main aims of the department is to develop an understanding of fundamental mechanisms 
in chemical physiology and pathology, in the action of drugs, and in toxicology. In addition, the rational 
prescription is one of the main objectives. Further, the department plays a vital role in research related 
to chronic kidney disease in rural agricultural communities. Moreover, the department provides drug 
information services
Staff
2.8.6 Department of Pharmacology (Phone: +9425 2227034)

24
Head 
Dr. T K P Kaluarachchi (BDS, PhD) Senior Lecturer Grade I 
 
Academic staff 
Dr. W A S N Wedasinghe (MBBS, MD trainee) Lecturer (Probationary)
 
Support staff 
Mr. R R P Bandara
 
The department of Pathology is involved in undergraduate teaching, research and diagnostic work. 
The main teaching commitment of the department is for the 3rd and 4th year medical undergraduates. 
It is housed on the first floor and is well-equipped with a haematological and histopathological 
laboratory. Diagnostic haematological and histopathological procedures are being conducted which 
help the patients admitted to the professorial unit of the THA as well as the undergraduate and 
postgraduate students in their learning endeavours. The department aims to produce medical 
graduates who can link the causes and effects of disease and apply this knowledge in providing optimal 
patient care. The department houses a museum of pathological specimens, which is extensively used 
by the students.
 
Head 
Dr. M S V Mendis (MBBS, D Path, MD Haematology) Senior Lecturer Grade II 
Consultant Haematologist
Academic staff
Dr. T D Ekanayake Lecturer
 (MBBS, Dip Haematology, MD Haematology)
 
 
 
2.8.7 Department of Pathology (Phone: +9425 2223533)
Staff
Staff

25
Visiting academic staff 
Dr R A V N Karunaratne Consultant Histopathologist
 (MBBS, D Path, MD Histopathology) 
Dr N J Asanthi Consultant Histopathologist
 (MBBS, D Path, MD Histopathology) 
Dr G T N Hewageeganage Consultant Chemical Pathologist
 (MBBS, D Path, MD Chemical P athology) 
Dr K C D Senevirathne Consultant Transfusion Physician
 (MBBS, MD Transfusion Medicine) 
Technical officers Support staff 
Mr. C S Senevirathna Ms. T M N K Tennakoon
Ms. D A G M Dolewaththa Mr. S N M Sirisena
The department of Community Medicine is the premier center for public health education, training 
and research in the Rajarata area. The primary mission of the department of Community Medicine is 
to develop a stimulating academic environment for undergraduate and postgraduate training in public 
health through a unique blend of traditional community medicine teaching and hands-on public health 
experience. The department is devoted to the promotion of public health through education, research 
and community service.
It conducts internationally renowned cross-cutting interdisciplinary research into a wide range of 
public health issues including neglected tropical diseases, maternal and child health and public mental 
health. The department offers numerous opportunities for community-based student learning, 
experience in real-life public health interventions and outreach programmes and partnerships that 
promote health and the quality of life in the rural population in the Rajarata area. The department is 
also widely recognized for its multidisciplinary technical expertise with department members 
specializing in a wide range of disciplines related to public health. The department not only conducts 
a comprehensive undergraduate teaching-training programme, but also, there are a large number of 
post-graduate trainees in a wide array of subjects supervised by the department members. The 
department members are also involved in technical consultancies for international and local agencies 
related to public health. 
The department of Community Medicine is a pioneer of community services of FMAS and at present 
provides a wide range of services to its public health field practice area and the Anuradhapura district. 
2.8.8 Department of Community Medicine (Phone: +9425 2226252)

26
These services cover a wide spectrum and of them, the extended community services mainly focus 
on addressing health inequities and promoting rural health. These activities include and are not limited 
to services for mentally disabled children, health promotional activities and outreach clinics especially 
targeted at disadvantaged communities, maternal and infant care services especially related to 
averting child malnutrition and improving maternal morbidity surveillance, disaster response activities 
and mental health promotion activities. These services are partly integrated into the community-based 
teaching programme to ensure that students get hands-on experience in the public health approach. 
The maternal and child health research unit (MCHRU) of the department of Community Medicine was 
established in 2012 and during the past decade has been a centre of excellence in maternal and child 
health and related research and training. The centre has not only carried out numerous capacitybuilding activities, provided career/higher-education opportunities for undergraduate and 
postgraduate trainees, researchers and service providers; but also, has initiated a number of social 
welfare and community-based activities, specifically focusing on disadvantaged groups of 
communities. Moreover, the impact of the high-quality evidence generated through collaborative 
research of the MCHRU funded by highly competitive international/local research grants is evident
through the crucial national-level policy changes, especially in maternal and child health service 
delivery.
Public Health Research Laboratory
Public health research laboratory (PHLR) attached to the department consists of basic biochemistry, 
microbiology and haematology investigations facilities to provide public health services. In addition, 
PHRL has a molecular laboratory with PCR and qPCR facilities. With in-built external and internal 
quality control, PHLR is the leading public health laboratory in the province. The PHRL is accredited 
by International Leptospirosis Association through MAT proficiency testing. 
Head 
Prof. W A N D Wickramasinghe Chair Professor of Community Medicine 
(MBBS, Dip (OH&S), MSc (App. Epid.), MSc, MD, FRSPH)
Academic staff 
Prof. Y P J N Warnasekara Professor in Public Health
 (MBBS, MSc, MPH, PhD, FRSPH)
Dr. G S Amarasinghe Senior Lecturer Grade II
 (MBBS, MSc, MPH, MPhil, FRSPH)
Dr. D A U Hettiarachchi (MBBS, MPhil) Lecturer 
 
Honorary professors Postdoctoral fellow 
Dr. S B Agampodi (MBBS, MSc, MPH, MD) Dr. M Weerasinghe (BSc (Sp.), MSc, PhD)
Dr. T C Agampodi (MBBS, MSc, MPH, PhD)
 
 
 
Staff

27
Management assistant Support staff 
Mr. K G J Bandara Ms. L J Weerakkody 
Mr. K A D S Marasinghe
The department of Forensic Medicine operates as a department within the FMAS, RUSL. Its main 
goal is to advance the discipline of forensic medicine and to increase the evidence basis for the field 
through research. The department of Forensic Medicine was established in 2008 in the para-clinical 
coordinator’s office in the administrative building. The department moved to its own premises in 2010, 
located on the west side of the ground floor of the new para-clinical building. The department is 
equipped with a forensic-pathology museum, which is extensively used by students. The department 
functions in close association with the THA. The goal of the department is to undertake part of the 
medico-legal work in the Anuradhapura district and to complement the services already carried out 
by the consultant judicial medical officer.
Head 
Dr. A B Seneviratne Senior Lecturer Grade I
 (MBBS, MD, DLM, DMJ, FCFPSL) Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
Visiting academic staff 
Dr. W M A S Jayasena Consultant Judicial Medical Officer,
 (MBBS, DLM, DMJ, MD (Forensic Medicine)) Teaching Hospital Kuliyapitiya
Dr. K M T B Gunathilaka Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
 (MBBS, DLM, MD (Forensic Medicine)) Teaching Hospital Kalutara 
Dr. M M S Senathunga Consultant Judicial Medical Officer 
 (MD (Russia), DLM, MD (Forensic Medicine)) Teaching Hospital Anuradhapura
Dr. M. M. A. C. Gunathilaka Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
 (MBBS, MD (Forensic Medicine)) Teaching Hospital Anuradhapura
 
Technical officer Support staff 
Ms. K D A I M Dissanayaka Mr. K A A R Kodithuwakku
 Ms. S G N P Gamage
Staff
2.8.9 Department of Forensic Medicine (Phone: +9425 2235276)

28
Family Medicine is a speciality in breadth that integrates the biological, clinical and behavioural 
sciences. The department of Family Medicine was established in December 2016 to enrich the MBBS 
Programme with concepts of Family Medicine, including comprehensive and continuing health care 
in both preventive and curative contexts for the individual, family, and community. The undergraduate 
teaching programme in Family Medicine was commenced as a separate discipline in February 2021. 
The department established a clinical skills laboratory for undergraduate training at the faculty 
premises in April 2023. Also, the primary medical care unit, Puliyankulama, was affiliated as an 
undergraduate training unit of the department of Family Medicine since February 2025.
In line with the present standards of the world federation for medical education (WFME), the 
requirements of the Sri Lanka Medical Council (SLMC), and the MBBS Programme of the FMAS,
RUSL the undergraduate curriculum of Family Medicine has been designed to address the current 
global and local requirements including modern advances in the field of primary care. The teachinglearning activities include: 
• Lectures / Problem-based Learning 
• Tutorials / Case-based learning 
• Post-lecture and moodle-based self-assessment quizzes 
• Moodle-based resources related to the objectives 
• Family Medicine clinical appointment (OPD, PMCU, ETU, GP) 
• Continuing clinical skills development programme 
- Clinical skills laboratory sessions, Department of Family Medicine 
- Family medicine student logbook 
- Moodle-based resources 
After completing the teaching-learning activities, students should be able to discuss how illness affects 
individuals, their families and society at large, describe the health care provided by the family physician 
and demonstrate communication, documentation and clinical skills in primary care.
The department is conducting high-impact cross-disciplinary research in primary care, rural health, 
mental health and toxicology, in collaboration with world-leading international universities. Moreover, 
there are strong links to other departments of the FMAS, the professorial unit of THA, other faculties 
of the RUSL, and local and global research organisations. The department conducts field clinics to 
promote health among rural communities of the Anuradhapura district. 
The Department provides the following services:
2.8.10 Department of Family Medicine (Phone: +9425 2057315)

29
• Training faculty members, pre-intern medical officers, medical officers, nursing officers and 
postgraduate trainees on research-related topics
• Conducting lectures and seminars for medical and allied health staff throughout the island
• Conducting clinical skills sessions for medical and allied health staff
• Delivering voluntary medical service at the student health centre for faculty staff and students
• Organising a community service programme
 
Head 
Prof. D Rathish Professor in Family Medicine
 (MBBS, SCHP, DFM, MPH, MPhil, PhD)
Academic staff 
Dr. P H G J Pushpakumara Acting Vice Chancellor, Dean
(MBBS, PgD, MPhil, MCGP, FRSPH)
Family Physician, Senior Lecturer Grade I
Dr. D M P L K Abeyrathna (MBBS) Lecturer (Probationary)
 
Support staff 
Ms. N P K Liyanarachchi
Department of Medicine is responsible for undergraduate and postgraduate teaching in clinical 
medicine and offers medical services at the professorial medical unit, THA. The teaching program 
includes bedside teaching in the wards, clinics and the acute admission unit of the hospital, where 
there is a wide range of clinical problems.
The department carries out research, public engagement and advocacy. The department offices and 
its clinical services (wards 61 and 62) are both situated in the newly constructed modern six-storied 
professorial clinical building at THA. Clinical services and the research lab, which provides several 
educational facilities for clinical students and researchers, are situated on the first floor and the 
department offices are situated on the second floor. In addition, the department is equipped with a 
modern skills lab that provides several skills-based educational facilities for students.
2.8.11 Department of Medicine (Phone: +9425 2227706)
Staff

30
Head 
Dr. A M A H M S Senanayake Senior Lecturer Grade II
 (MBBS, MD, MRCP UK, FRCP Lon, Consultant Physician
 MRCP Geriatrics (UK), FRCP Edin) 
 
Academic staff 
Snr. Prof. S H Siribaddana Chair, Senior Professor 
 (MBBS, MD, FCCP, FRCP Edin, FRCP Lon) Consultant Physician
Dr. M R P Weerawansa (MBBS, MD) Senior Lecturer Grade II
Consultant Physician
Dr. R D N C Sarathchandra Senior Lecturer Grade II 
 (MBBS, MD, MRCP UK, FRCP Edin) Consultant Physician
Dr. W M Y L Wijekoon (MBBS, MD) Lecturer
Consultant Physician (Acting)
Technical officer Support staff 
Mr. L V K Senarathna Mr. S A S Sugathadasa
Management assistant 
Ms. S Madurasinghe
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The department of Surgery was established on the 29th of April 2009 within the Saliyapura faculty 
premises. The fully-fledged department is now located in the professorial unit, THA.
The professorial unit provides teaching and training in clinical surgery for undergraduates and 
postgraduate trainees along with its clinical services to a large segment of the population in the North 
Central province. The service component of the department includes general surgical casualties, 
surgical clinics, emergency and elective endoscopies and routine surgical operations. Student teaching 
activities include mainly the final year surgical rotation of eight weeks. Students are exposed to roundthe-clock patient management including clinical history taking, management decision-making, 
Staff
2.8.12 Department of Surgery (Phone: +9425 2227705)

31
investigations and critical care and trauma. Ward rounds, clinics and ward classes provide a regular 
opportunity for student teaching with ample clinical material.
 
 
 
Head 
Dr. S Srishankar Senior Lecturer Grade II 
 (MBBS, MD, FRCS Glasgow, MRCS England, Consultant Surgeon
 MRCS Edinburgh, FRSPH, FMAS India)
 
Academic staff
Prof. S P B Thalgaspitiya Chair Professor of Surgery
 (MBBS, MS,Dip. laparoscopic surgery IRCAD Consultant Surgeon
 France, FMAS India)
Dr. W S M K J Senanayake Senior Lecturer Grade II
 (MBBS, MD, MRCS Edin, FMAS India) Consultant Surgeon 
Dr. A B Jayathilake Senior Lecturer Grade II
 (MBBS, MD, MRCS Glasgow, FMAS India) Consultant Surgeon 
 
Technical officer Support staff 
Ms. D M M D K Senavirathna Mr. T G Nuton
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The department of Paediatrics is located on the second floor of the professorial unit, THA. It was 
established in 2009. Currently, it serves as a crucial academic and clinical unit dedicated to the study 
and practice of Paediatric medicine. The department provides high-quality health care services to the 
children and neonates in North Central province through the inpatient wards and outpatient clinics 
while making practical training ground for medical students. 
The department provides supervision, education and training on paediatrics for the undergraduate 
medical students of RUSL to achieve the comprehensive knowledge, skills and attitudes which needs 
to provide high-quality patient care and to address local and global health challenges. 
Staff
2.8.13 Department of Paediatrics (Phone: +9425 2227708)

32
 
Head 
Dr. S A N A Suraweera (MBBS, DCH, MD) Senior Lecturer Grade II
Consultant Paediatrician
Academic staff 
Dr.G H I Dharshika (MBBS, DCH, MD) Lecturer, Consultant Paediatrician 
(Acting)
Dr. M W W Arambepola (MBBS, DCH, MD, FRCP) Senior Lecturer Grade I
(assignment basis)
Consultant Paediatrician
Dr. G I G Galappaththi (MBBS, MD) Lecturer (Probationary)
Management assistant Support staff 
Ms. N S Priyadarshani Ms. C R K Chandrasekara
 
 
 
 
The department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology is located on the third floor of the professorial unit, 
THA. The unit consists of three wards (64, 65 and 68) with 42-bed capacity namely antenatal, postnatal 
and gynaecology wards. All three wards include en suite high dependency units (HDU) to optimize the 
care for critically ill patients. In addition, the department provides its services through a well-equipped 
gynaecology theatre and a modern delivery suite.
As the primary objective, the department provides an intellectually stimulating and friendly 
environment for students to learn Obstetrics and Gynaecology. The department conducts an 
undergraduate teaching programme through lectures and clinical appo intments while demonstrating 
all relevant procedures in obstetrics and gynaecology.
It also takes part in postgraduate training and research in many aspects of Obstetrics and 
Gynaecology. Furthermore, the department provides clinical services through the professorial 
Obstetrics and Gynaecology units of THA to the general public. Clinical services include maternity 
care inwards and clinics and also care of gynaecological patients through clinics and as inward 
patients. This unit provides minimally invasive gynaecological surgeries through the ‘RAGEC’ 
Staff
2.8.14 Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (Phone: +9425 2227707)

33
gynaecological endoscopy centre, which is extremely similar to the finest surgeries conducted 
throughout the world. This is an excellent regional training centre for all medical staff and nurses in 
the North Central province.
 
Head 
Dr. D M A Kumara (MBBS, MD, MRCOG) Senior Lecturer Grade II 
Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
Academic staff 
Dr. N P Hettigama (MBBS, MD) Senior Lecturer Grade I
Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
Technical officer Support staff 
Mr. W L G Upul Mr. A.S. Gamage
 
Management assistant 
Ms. N Jayawardhana
 
 
 
 
 
The department of Psychiatry was established in 2008. Undergraduate teaching was commenced f or 
third- and fourth-year students in the following year. In 2012, the department was moved to the new 
six-storied professorial building from where it was initially established. In January 2017, the 
professorial Psychiatry ward, which is a 34-bed inpatient facility at the THA, was opened to promote 
psychiatry professorial student appointments in the final year.
The department is actively involved in providing a dedicated clinical service as well as teaching and 
research in psychiatry. The department conducts teaching programs for undergraduate medical 
students and postgraduate trainees in Psychiatry. The acute care unit provides inpatient services and 
a range of outpatient services. 
Staff
2.8.15 Department of Psychiatry (Phone: +9425 2227704)

34
 
Head 
Prof. L L A Isuru (MBBS, MD, MRCPsych) Professor in Psychiatry
Consultant Psychiatrist
Academic staff 
Dr. S M B H Abeyratne (MBBS, MD) Lecturer
Consultant Psychiatrist (Acting)
 
Visiting academic staff
Prof. D Samarasinghe Visiting Professor of Psychiatry
 (MBBS, MD, FRCPsych, DSc)
 
Management assistant Support staff 
Ms. UGT Madushani Mr. J M Pushpakumara
 
The Medical Education Unit (MEU) was formally established in the FMAS, RUSL, with a view of 
providing sustainable human resource development to the academic staff of the faculty and conducting 
research in relation to the training of health professionals in the educational process. The MEU has 
been fully operational for the last 9 years. The academic staff is qualified in curriculum planning, 
designing and evaluation, introducing, evaluating, and assuring the quality of teaching-learning and 
assessment methods. With this background, the MEU has been at the forefront of ensuring the effective 
and efficient functioning of the MBBS programme offered by the faculty. It supports the academic staff 
and the extended faculty to enhance their teaching scholarship through various staff development 
programmes and research activities. The MEU is currently involved in:
• Training medical teachers in the principles and methods of medical education through regular 
seminars, workshops, etc.
MEU runs short workshops on various important aspects of medical education, for academic 
staff in the faculty as well as for the extended faculty based on their needs and the requirements 
of the curriculum. 
• Providing continuing guidance to the faculty regarding curriculum, teaching-learning methods, 
assessment, curriculum monitoring, and evaluation.
2.8.16 Medical Education Unit (MEU) (Phone: +9425 2050654)
Staff

35
The MEU provides guidance to the faculty in terms of revising, monitoring, and evaluating 
course curricula. The MEU examines current trends in medical education to make an 
informed decision on the curriculum, and provide guidance during the designing of new 
courses or review and revision of existing modules/courses and instructional design process. 
Further, MEU contributes to the ‘peer assessment of teachers’ program in the faculty. 
• Teaching undergraduate students. 
The academic staff in the MEU contributes to the teaching in the personal and professional 
development stream. The staff also participate as facilitators in student-centred learning 
activities like problem-based learning, small-group discussions, and portfolio-based 
assessments. The MEU coordinates the computer-based learning environment and the staff is 
involved in developing e-learning material for student learning.
• MEU promotes and conducts educational research. Promoting educational research leads to 
informed decision-making in health professions training.
• Establishing collaborations with other universities, faculties, and health professions training 
institutions to share expertise on innovations in medical education and conducting staff 
development activities.
• Continuing professional development (CPD) in higher education. 
This is a requirement in the future and MEU with its links with national and international 
training centres is well suited to organize CPD programmes to enhance scholarship in 
education. The MEU can facilitate innovations in teaching and assessments. The MEU along 
with its staff associates would be able to conduct training programs on student-centred 
learning and assessments for academic staff of faculties of health sciences. The MEU has the 
potential to provide a platform form for interested staff from different disciplines to discuss 
issues related to teaching-learning and student assessment and come up with innovative 
solutions.
 
 
Coordinator 
Prof. C S Paththinige
(MBBS, MSc, PGCert (MedEd), MMEd))
 
Academic staff 
Prof. I M Karunathilake, Honorary Consultant
(MBBS, CTHE, DMedEd(Dundee), MMedEd(Dundee), FHEA(UK), FCGP(SL), FRCP(Edin.), 
FCME(SL))
 
Management assistant 
Ms. N L Rathnayaka
Staff

36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Radiology and Anaesthesiology unit was established in 2017. The unit provides teaching and 
training in Anaesthesiology for undergraduates and postgraduate trainees along with its clinical 
services to THA. Also, the unit conducts workshops on cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for finalyear undergraduates at the skills laboratory located in the professorial unit, THA. The aim of the 
workshop is to provide the essential knowledge to manage a critically ill patient. The students are 
expected to sit for an MCQ examination before and after the workshop. A certificate of completion is 
awarded to the students who pass the post-workshop examination. 
The Anaesthesiology unit provides services at THA for patients requiring peri-operative medical care 
in the following areas:
• General anaesthesia
• Obstetric and gynaecological anaesthesia 
• Paediatric anaesthesia
• Trauma and neuro-anaesthesia
• Regional anaesthesia
• Orthopaedic surgery
• Urologic surgery
• Ear, Nose, Throat (ENT) surgery
• Oral and maxillofacial (OMF) Surgery
• Eye surgery
• Gastrointestinal surgery
Also, the unit provides high-quality critical care for intensive care and high-dependency units of THA. 
Further, the unit conducts twice-weekly clinics for perioperative medical care and pain management. 
Medical doctors, medical students, and other medical support staff of THA receive training from the 
unit in relation to the above-mentioned areas.
 
 
 
 
Academic staff 
Dr. K A D L P Kariyawasam (MBBS, MD) Senior Lecturer Grade II 
Consultant Anaesthetist
 
 
Staff
2.8.17 Radiology and Anaesthesiology Unit (Phone: +9425 2226276)

37
2.9 ACADEMIC SUPPORTING CENTRES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The medical library serves as the primary source of medical information for health professionals and 
undergraduate students of FMAS and THA. It operates through two branches: one located within the 
faculty premises at Saliyapura, and the other at the professorial unit of THA. The professorial u nit 
library also supports postgraduate education as a postgraduate institute of medicine (PGIM) resource 
centre.
The library is fully automated and operates using the KOHA library management system, providing 
access to its complete collection through the online public access catalogue (OPAC). In addition to an 
extensive print collection, users have access to a wide range of online databases and e-books. A 
dedicated reading room is available for quiet, individual study. The room is fully equipped with Wi-Fi 
coverage, and most study tables are fitted with nearby electrical outlets. 
The medical library maintains a comprehensive and up-to-date collection of more than 11,000 
volumes of textbooks and journals. Supplementary resources include electronic learning materials 
(CDs/DVDs), lecture notes, past examination papers (both online and printed), medical newsletters, 
theses, and dissertations. The collection is updated annually to ensure access to the latest medical 
knowledge. The library can accommodate approximately 250 users at the main facility and 45 users 
at the clinical library.
Library open hours:
• Main Library (Saliyapura): Open from 8:30 am to 10:00 pm, Monday to Friday, and from 8:30 
am to 5:00 pm on weekends and public holidays (closed on Poya days, Christmas Day, and 
during New Year holidays).
• Professorial Unit Library: Open from 11:45 am to 10:00 pm, Monday to Friday, and from 8:30 
am to 5:00 pm on weekends.
During examination periods, Professorial Library remain open full day to provide extended study hours for 
students.
Each student is entitled to borrow:
• Two (02) reference book for overnight use.
• Two (02) non-reference books for a two-week loan period.
2.9.1 Library (Phone: +9425 2226389 (Faculty), +9425 2237315 (Professorial unit))

38
Books labelled “PR” (permanent reference) in red are for in-library use only and may not be borrowed. 
Fines apply for overdue items. Access to library facilities is granted upon presentation of a valid student 
identity card.
 
 
 
Senior assistant librarian 
Ms. W M P G K T Wanasinghe (BBAmgt, MSSc) 
 
Library information assistants Support staff 
Mr. M K D A Amarasinghe Mr. I D Weerasinghe 
Mr. G R D H Fernando Mr. G Piyarathne 
Mr. W Indrajith Ms. M R A Wijerathna
Ms. K H D Kanthi Ms. H M J B Dassanayake
 
Contact information Email: library@med.rjt.ac.lk, thusharafmas@gmail.com 
 
ICT is now part of the fabric of all levels of education. The knowledge-seeking attitude of undergraduat
es is greatly facilitated by resources other than the traditional printed media. ICT-based learning and 
teaching are tremendously efficient in helping medical students to learn fast and well. The computer 
laboratory was ceremonially opened on the 13th of November 2008.
The FMAS encourages the use of computing and network resources to enhance the learning and 
teaching environment of the faculty community. The computer laboratory is the main location that 
provides ICT resources for the students and the academic staff of the faculty. The faculty has a LMS 
which provides students with e-resources that complement classroom and clinical teaching. In 
addition, the computer laboratory provides ICT training for new entrants, maintains services of the 
local area network (LAN), Internet and networking of the faculty and maintains the faculty website. 
The computer laboratory of the faculty comprises 45 computers. It operates from 08.30 am to 4.30 
pm on weekdays.
Staff
2.9.2 Computer Laboratory (Phone: +9425 2227176)

39
 
 
Academic coordinator 
Dr. D A U Hettiarachchi (MBBS, MPhil) Lecturer
 
Instructor in computer technology 
Ms. A W Irugalbandara (BSc (IT), MIT)
Technical officer Support staff 
Mr. H A J P Herath Mr. G P J A Darmapala
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 ACADEMIC PROGRAMME COORDINATORS 
MBBS undergraduate course is divided into four phases. After the initial foundation course for MBBS 
programme, the course is structured into preclinical, paraclinical and clinical phases depending on the 
subject content. Each of these phases is coordinated by a coordinator appointed by the faculty board.
 
Preclinical coordinator Prof. W W Kumbukgolla (BSc, MPhil, PhD)
Paraclinical coordinator Prof. J A A S Jayaweera (MBBS, MSc., MPhil, Dip. Micro, MD 
Medical Microbiology, FRCPath [Micro])
Clinical coordinator Dr. M R P Weerawansa (MBBS, MD)
Staff
 3. ACADEMIC PROGRAMME 

40
3.2 PROGRAMME LEARNING OUTCOMES (PLOs) OF THE MBBS PROGRAMME 
Programme learning outcomes (PLOs) of the MBBS programme of FMAS, RUSL are based on the 
competencies that a graduate of the programme should achieve at the end of the programme. These 
graduate competencies are listed under the following major headings:
1. Knowledge of basic biomedical and clinical sciences
2. Knowledge of epidemiological, behavioral and social sciences related to health and disease
3. Research and evidence-based medicine
4. Clinical skills for medical practice
5. Interpersonal communication, teamwork and collaboration, and leadership
6. Information management
7. Values, attitudes, professionalism, and ethics
8. Social responsibility and accountability
9. Continuous professional development
10. Creativity, critical thinking, clinical reasoning and problem-solving
11. Patient care
12. Health promotion, disease prevention, and community-based healthcare
13. Medical jurisprudence
3.3 GRADUATE PROFILE 
On completion of the MBBS programme, a graduate of the FMAS, RUSL, should be able to 
demonstrate/perform the following at the level of general professional practice in medicine and should 
have the following competencies (Figure 5).
The graduate profile and competencies of a graduate of the MBBS programme of FMAS, RUSL are
symbolized by the layout of the ancient hospital complex of the Mihintale monastery, which is considered
the oldest archaeological evidence of a hospital in Sri Lanka and perhaps in the world.
 

41
 Graduate profile Competencies 
A graduate should be able to,
demonstrate the knowledge
through integration and
application of biomedical,
clinical, epidemiological,
behavioural social science principles in 
health and diseasewhile recognizing 
the role of evidence-based medicine 
and research in healthcare.
Professional knowledge (Informed 
practitioner) 
1 Knowledge of epidemiological, behavioural
and social sciences related to health and
disease
2 Knowledge of epidemiological, behavioural 
and social sciences related to health and 
disease
3 Research and evidence-based medicine
demonstrate clinical and
interpersonal skills in the
management of health and
disease, and skills in the
management of informationrelated
to healthcare.
Professional skills (Skilled practitioner) 
4 Clinical skills for medical practice
5 Interpersonal communication, teamwork 
andcollaboration, and leadership
6 Information management
demonstrate adherence to
ethical principles in medical
practice, and appropriate
personal values and attitudes in
personal and professional
development.
provide safe and efficient
patient care and contribute 
to promotive, preventive, 
and curative care at 
different levels; complying with
professional and legal responsibilities, 
and recognizing the roles of different 
healthcare systems. and dealing with
diversity, complexity, and uncertainty.
Professional values, attitudes, and 
mindset (Virtuous individual) 
7 Values, attitudes, professionalism, and ethics
8 Social responsibility and accountability
9 Continuous professional development
 
Professional delivery and management of 
healthcare (Efficient healthcare provider and 
health advocate) 
10 Creativity, critical thinking, clinical 
reasoning,and problem-solving
11 Patient care
12 Health promotion, disease prevention, 
andcommunity-based healthcare
13 Medical jurisprudence

42
Professional knowledge 
Professional skills
Professional values, attitudes, and mindset
Professional delivery and management of healthcare
Figure 5: Graduate profile of the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Reference: Mueller-Dietz, H. E. (1996). Stone, Sarcophagi and Ancient Hospitals in Sri Lanka. Medizinhistorisches Journal,(H. 1/2), 49-65.

43
3.4 MBBS ACADEMIC PROGRAMME 
The medical programme is a full-time course conducted over a period of five years (Figure 6). 
 
The purpose of the student foundation program is to help new students adjust and feel comfortable in 
the new environment, inculcate in them the ethics and culture of the university, help them build bonds 
with other students and faculty members, and expose them to a sense of greater purpose and selfexploration.
This is a mandatory foundation and orientation course at the beginning of the MBBS programme that 
facilitates the smooth transition of students from the academic environment of the school to the 
professional MBBS course. At the start of the foundation, the newcomers learn about the institutional 
policies, processes, practices, culture and values, and their mentor groups are formed. The foundation 
programme is also used to rectify critical gaps, for example in English, for students who have a 
deficiency and there is a continuous English programme during the foundation course. A compulsory 
English examination will be conducted at the end of the course. A variety of activities (physical 
activities, creative arts, lectures, literacy activities and visits to local areas) will be conducted in which 
the student will be fully engaged throughout the day for the entire duration of the programme.
 
1 2 3 5 6 7 10
MS-2, POG & Short Appointments 1 - 2
Research in Medicine
Personal and Professional Development (PPD) Stream
9 Promramme Foundation course for medical studies
Anatomy, Physiology & 
Biochemistry Introductory clinical appointments
MS -1
Microbilogy & 
Parasitology
Family Medicine & 
Forensic Medicine Medicine, Surgery, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Gyn & Obs (Lectures) Professorial Clinical Appointments (Medicine, Surgery, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Gyn & Obs)
5 Phase
Preclinical
Paraclinical
Clinical
Academic Year 1 2 3 4
Semester 4 8
Community Medicine, Pathology & 
Pharmacology
Figure 6: Structure of the MBBS Programme
(MS-1: Medicine, Surgery -1 Appointment, MS-2: Medicine, Surgery -2 Appointment, POG: 
Paediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynaecology Appointment)
3.4.1 Foundation course for MBBS programme

44
3.4.2 ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEACHING PROGRAMME 
Intensive/ Foundation English programme 
The foundation English programme consists of 2 weeks. The curriculum is particularly designed to 
enrich the four skills of the English language of the students. Furthermore, the lessons are studded with 
medical English as well as general English focusing more on the IELTS Examination. 
A placement test will be held before conducting the lectures as a mode of assessing the proficiency 
levels in the English Language of the students and students are categorized as mixed ability groups 
when conducting the lectures. There will be an end course examination at the end of the programme. 
English programme for 1st year and 2nd year students 
 
English programme for 1st and 2nd year students is introduced to reinforce them to amplify their 
language skills in English. The compulsory general English programme will be extended until the end 
of the second year. 80% attendance is mandatory and there will be an English examination at the end 
of the second year at the time of the 2nd MBBS Examination. Students who obtain less than 50% for 
any of the components of the examination should re-sit the respective component of the examination 
with the next batch. Successful completion of the English examination is mandatory to proceed with 
the year 5 professorial clinical training.
Remedial English programme 
 
This programme facilitates students who are in low language proficiencies to improve their knowledge 
of English Language. It is focused on developing the speaking competency of the students, which is 
essential when stepping up to the practical world. 
The students who wish to augment their language skills in English are most welcome to take part in 
the lectures. The lectures will be conducted after hours to cater to their needs.
 
 
Head 
Mr. D A Wehella (BA (USJ), MA (KLN)) Lecturer
 Department of English Language Teaching 
Instructor in English 
Ms. N D Jayasinghe (BA Part I (USJP), GAQ (USJP) ) Senior Instructor
Ms. R M L C Kumari Instructor in English
 (BA (RUSL), MA (KLN), Dip. in English (RUSL), 
 Certificate in English for Employment)
Staff 

45
The preclinical course of the FMAS, RUSL aims to provide comprehensive theoretical knowledge 
regarding the normal structure of the human body in connection with its integrated functions, and the 
basis of dysfunction. In addition, the students are provided with guidance and facilities for the
development of skills in clinical and laboratory assessment of the structure and functions of the human 
body. A variety of teaching-learning strategies are used to promote self-directed learning, critical 
thinking, interpersonal communication, teamwork, and leadership among students.
Structure and timeline of the preclinical course 
The preclinical course occupies the first three (3) semesters of the MBBS course of FMAS, RUSL (i.e. 
semester 1 and 2 of the year-1 [Y1S1, Y1S2] and semester 1 of the year-2 [Y2S1]). 
The modules in the three (3) disciplines in the preclinical course (i.e. Anatomy, Physiology and 
Biochemistry) are logically arranged, ensuring the maximum possible integration and coordination 
between the three disciplines (Table 1). Practical aspects of clinical and laboratory (biochemical) 
assessments related to the theoretical aspects covered in different modules are incorporated into two 
separate modules in Physiology and Biochemistry, however, the teaching/learning activities of these 
two modules are arranged during the course of all three semesters, along with the relevant modules in 
Biochemistry and Physiology. 
3.4.3 Year 1 and 2 (Preclinical phase)

46
Table 1: Structure and timeline of the preclinical course
Year Semester Module code Module title
YEAR 
1
Semester 
1
ANA11013 Anatomy Module 1: Foundation to the Human 
Anatomy, the Thorax, cardiovascular System and 
Respiratory System
PHY11102: Physiology Module 3: Practical Physiology
BCH11024 Biochemistry Module 1: General Biochemistry and 
Circulatory System
PHY11034 Physiology Module 1: General Physiology, 
Cardiovascular and Respiratory Physiology 
ANA11044 Anatomy Module: The Abdomen, Pelvis, and the 
Perineum, Gastrointestinal and Genito-urinary 
Semester systems
2
ANA12073 Anatomy Module 3: The Upper Limb and Lower Limb
BCH12055 Biochemistry Module 2: Biochemistry of 
Gastrointestinal, Excretory and Endocrine Systems, 
and Human Nutrition
PHY12066 Physiology Module 2: Gastrointestinal, Renal, 
Endocrine and Reproductive Physiology, and 
YEAR Neurophysiology 
2
Semester 
1
ANA21083 Anatomy Module 4: The Head, Neck and the Spine, 
and Neuroanatomy
BCH21092 Biochemistry Module 3: Applied Biochemistry

47
Assessments in the preclinical course 
Examinations of the preclinical course include formative assessments (FAs) and end of the course 
examination (i.e. 2nd MBBS Examination). Formative assessments are done by each department by 
conducting mock examinations and getting students to complete assignments and answer questions, 
and the strengths and weaknesses of student answers are discussed. The summative exams are held 
as described in the table below. These include the mid-course continuous assessment-1 (MCA1) and 
mid-course continuous assessment-2 (MCA2) and the 2nd MBBS examination. These examinations use 
a variety of assessment methods that include multiple choice questions (MCQ) (including true/false 
type, and single best response type questions), short answer questions (SAQ), structured essay 
questions (SEQ), objective structured practical examinations (OSPE) and students’ presentations
(Table 2).
Table 2: Summarized assessment structure of the preclinical course
Examination Examination component
Preclinical course: Mid-course 
assessment – 1 (MCA1)
(End of Y1S1)
Anatomy Module 1- MCA
Biochemistry Module 1- MCA
Physiology Module 1- MCA
Preclinical course: Mid-course 
assessment – 2 (MCA2)
(End of Y1S2)
Anatomy Module 2- MCA 
Anatomy Module 3- MCA
Biochemistry Module 2- MCA 
Physiology Module 2- MCA 
End of Preclinical course examination
(2nd MBBS Examination)
(End of Y2S1)
End-course assessment-1 
(ECA-1)
Anatomy Module 1
Biochemistry Module 1
Physiology Module 1
End-course assessment 2
(ECA-2)
Anatomy Module 2
Biochemistry Module 2
Physiology Module 2
Anatomy Module 3
End-course assessment 3
(ECA-3)
Anatomy module 4
Biochemistry Module 3
Physiology Module 3

48
Requirements to sit for the module examinations 
• Minimum of overall 80% attendance to specified components during the module, and
• Submission of all assignments/tutorials or any other assigned tasks.
 
Method of grading 
 A grade based on the marks (on a scale of 0 to 100) would be awarded for each module (Table 3). 
Table 3: Mark-based grade point and grade (grade points for each grade are according to UGC 
Commission circular No. 901) 
• The grades obtainable for a module are on a scale of A+to E
• The minimum grade a student should achieve to pass a module is C
• Any student obtaining a grade of less than C-(C-minus) in any module must sit the examination 
for the same module at the next available end-course examination 
• A student must sit the first available end-course assessment unless a valid excuse has been 
submitted to the faculty board and accepted by the Senate.
• Marks of the mid-course assessments are not considered in the calculation of the final results 
of the modules in the second and subsequent attempts.
• The maximum grade obtainable in the second or any subsequent attempt is C.
Marks Grade Point Grade 
≥ 79.50 to 100.00 4.00 A
+
≥ 74.50 to < 79.50 4.00 A
≥ 69.50 to < 74.50 3.70 A
-
≥ 64.50 to < 69.50 3.30 B
+
≥ 59.50 to < 64.50 3.00 B
≥ 56.50 to < 59.50 2.70 B
-
≥ 53.50 to < 56.50 2.30 C
+
≥ 50.00 to < 53.50 2.00 C
≥ 44.50 to < 50.00 1.70 C
-
≥ 34.50 to < 44.50 1.30 D
+
≥ 24.50 to < 34.50 1.00 D
 00.00 to < 24.50 0.00 E

49
• When a student obtains <50.00 marks for a module in the second or any subsequent attempts, 
irrespective of the attempt, the highest marks obtained at any attempt of that particular module 
examination will be considered for the calculation of the cumulative results of the respective 
discipline.
• A student who sits for the third or subsequent available module examination for his/her intake 
will have to proceed with the subsequent intake.
• If a student obtained a final score of <24.50% (E Grade) in any one of the modules, he/she is 
considered to have failed all modules (in all 3 disciplines) of the relevant end-course assessment. 
The cumulative result of the three disciplines (i.e. Anatomy, Biochemistry and Physiology) 
• Weighted average marks (WAM) are computed for each discipline using the following formula 
(based on the credit values and the marks for all the modules, relevant to the particular 
discipline)
WAM = Σ cimi/ ci
where ci = number of credits for the ith module, and mi = mark for the ith module
• A grade for each discipline is allocated based on the WAM (based on table 3)
• To “Pass” a discipline, a student should
o obtain a minimum WAM of 50.00 and a grade point of 2.0 AND
o have a minimum of ‘C’ grade for all modules of the discipline except one module, which 
should be a minimum of ‘C-(C minus)’
Cumulative result of the preclinical course examinations 
• A cumulative average will be calculated from the WAM obtained for each discipline using the 
following formula 
Cumulative average results = Σ mi/ n
where mi = WAM for the discipline, and n = Total number of disciplines (3)
• An overall grade point for the cumulative average results of the Preclinical course is allocated 
based on Table 3. 
• The grade of each discipline and the grade point of the Preclinical course allocated at this point 
shall be referred to as the “results of the 2nd MBBS examination” 
 
Successful completion of preclinical course 
• Only students who have ‘passed’ all three disciplines of the preclinical course (refer to the 
criteria above), AND
• Obtained a minimum cumulative average mark of 50.00 and a grade point of 2.0 are allowed to 
proceed to the third MBBS programme and clinical training 
• A student will only be allowed to sit a maximum of 4 times for an end-course examination of 
any particular module

50
Awarding classes for “Second MBBS Examination” 
The classes would be awarded for second MBBS Examination based on Table 4. 
Table 4: Cumulative average mark-based cut-off levels of grade point for awarding classes (cutoff levels of 
grade point for awarding classes are according to UGC commission circular No. 901) 
Cumulative average marks Cut-off grade Point Class
≥ 69.50 3.70 First 
≥ 64.50 to < 69.50 3.30 Second Upper
≥ 59.50 to < 64.50 3.00 Second Lower
• The classes are awarded only when the student has passed all three disciplines of the Preclinical 
course in the first attempt.
 
Awards of distinctions, prizes, and medals 
• The department of Anatomy, department of Biochemistry and department of Physiology will 
award distinctions, prizes and medals for their subjects based on the weighted average marks 
(WAM) of the particular discipline.
WAM= Σ cimi/ ci
where ci = number of credit units for the ith module, and mi = mark for the ith module
• The distinctions are awarded to the students with a WAM of ≥ 69.50 for the discipline when 
the student has passed all three disciplines of the Preclinical course on the first attempt. 
• Gold medals will also be awarded to the students who fulfil the following criteria:
 
Gold medals 
• Prof. Malkanthi Chandrasekara Memorial Gold Medal in Anatomy: Awarded to the student 
with the highest weighted average mark in Anatomy, with a minimum of second-class upper 
division in the 2nd MBBS Examination and Distinction in Anatomy
• Emeritus Prof. P A J Perera Gold Medal in Biochemistry: Awarded to the student with the 
highest weighted average mark in Biochemistry, with a minimum of second-class upper 
division in the 2nd MBBS Examination and Distinction in Biochemistry
• Emeritus Prof. Malini Udupihille Gold Medal in Physiology: Awarded to the student with the 
highest weighted average mark in Physiology, with a minimum of second-class upper division 
in the 2nd MBBS Examination and Distinction in Physiology
• Emeritus Prof. P A J Perera Gold Medal for Best Overall Performance in the 2nd MBBS 
examination: Awarded to the student with the highest cumulative average in the 2nd MBBS 
Examination, with a minimum of second-class upper division in the 2nd MBBS Examination

51
Foundation to clinical practice 
Following the 2nd MBBS examination, students are expected to follow an introductory clinical 
programme at the Teaching Hospital Anuradhapura, consisting of one-week appointments in each of 
the four major disciplines (Medicine, Surgery, Paediatrics, and Obstetrics and Gynaecology). 
Research in medicine 
At the commencement of the 4th semester, students will be grouped and each group will conduct a 
research project under the supervision of an academic staff member in the faculty. Four (4) semesters 
are allocated for research in medicine module. The research proposal will be assessed for its scientific 
merit. Ethical aspects of the research will be evaluated by the ERC committee and the report will be 
added to the assessments. Individual student assessments will be conducted by allocated research 
supervisors in the middle of the research process and after the research. Self-evaluation and peer 
evaluations on the individual contribution to the research process will be collected. All research groups 
are expected to submit a written report on the completed research work at the end of the module for 
the final assessment, which will be evaluated by a panel of examiners. For details on the summative 
assessment, please refer to the curriculum document.
Personal and professional development (PPD) stream
PPD stream was included in the MBBS curriculum in 2016 to develop a graduate with values of the 
highest ethical conduct and mutual respect, and to achieve the requirements of SLQF level 6 learning 
outcomes; communication, teamwork and leadership, creativity and problem-solving, networking and 
social skills, adaptability and flexibility, attitude values and professionalism and vision for life (SLQF 
learning outcomes 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10 and 11). PPD stream is conducted from years 1 to 4 as three separate 
modules (Table 5) and the pass mark is ≥50% for each module. The student must pass all three 
modules of the PPD stream to obtain admission for the final MBBS examination.
Coordinator Module 01 Dr. P R S R J Bandara
Coordinator Module 02 Dr. W G S S Waiddyanatha
Coordinator Module 03 Dr. M G R S S Gunathilaka
Table 5: Assessments in the personal and professional development stream
 
Module Assessment 
mode
Placement of 
assessments in the 
curriculum
Personal and
Professional Skills
Students project-based presentation (70 marks) 
Project summary submission (30 marks)
Preclinical course 
Human Psychology
and Behaviour
Scenario-based student presentations (100 marks) Paraclinical course 
year 1 
Medical Ethics Scenario-based student presentations (80 marks)
Case report submission (20 marks)
Paraclinical course 
year 2
 

52
All students who pass the 2nd MBBS examination will proceed to year 3 and clinical training. Students 
are expected to follow the clinical programme on all days other than designated holidays and the 
clinical programme does not follow the semester system.
Method of grading 
A grade based on the marks (on a scale of 0 to 100) would be awarded for each module according to 
Table 6. Each module's grade and grade point will be assigned based on Table 6.
Table 6: Mark-based grade point and grade (grade points for each grade are according to UGC 
Commission circular No. 901) 
Marks Grade Point Grade 
≥ 79.50 to 100.00 4.00 A
+
≥ 74.50 to < 79.50 4.00 A
≥ 69.50 to < 74.50 3.70 A
-
≥ 64.50 to < 69.50 3.30 B
+
≥ 59.50 to < 64.50 3.00 B
≥ 56.50 to < 59.50 2.70 B
-
≥ 53.50 to < 56.50 2.30 C
+
≥ 50.00 to < 53.50 2.00 C
≥ 44.50 to < 50.00 1.70 C
-
≥ 34.50 to < 44.50 1.30 D
+
≥ 24.50 to < 34.50 1.00 D
 00.00 to < 24.50 0.00 E
 
• The grades obtainable for a module are on a scale of A+to E.
• The minimum grade a student should achieve to pass a module is C (50.00).
• Any student obtaining a grade of less than C- in any module must sit the examination for the 
same module at the next available examination. 
• A student must sit the first available examination unless a valid excuse has been submitted to 
and recommended by the faculty board and accepted by the Senate.
• The maximum grade obtainable in any subsequent attempt is C (50.00).
3.4.4 Year 3 and 4 (Paraclinical phase)

53
• If a student scores < 24.50% in any one of the modules in any discipline offered in a given 
semester examination, he/she is considered to have failed in all the modules of all disciplines 
offered in that particular semester examination. It will not affect the modules of the same 
semester examination passed in previous attempts and the mid-module examinations.
• The mid-module examination marks will be carried forward to the final result of the module in 
subsequent attempts
• When a student obtains <50.00 marks for a module in the second or any subsequent attempts, 
irrespective of the attempt, the highest marks obtained at any attempt of that particular module 
examination will be considered for the calculation of the cumulative results of the respective 
discipline. 
Cumulative result of each of the disciplines (Microbiology, Parasitology, Community 
Medicine, Pathology, Pharmacology, Family Medicine, Forensic Medicine)
• Weighted average marks (WAM) are computed for each discipline using the following 
formula (based on the credit values and the mark for all the modules, relevant to the 
particular discipline):
WAM= Σ cimi / ci, where
ci = number of credits for the i
th module, and mi = mark for the ith module
• A grade and a grade point for each discipline are allocated based on the WAM (Table 6).
• To “pass” a discipline, a student should
o obtain a minimum cumulative WAM of 50.00 and a grade point of 2.0 AND
o have a minimum of ‘C’ grade for all modules of the discipline except one module, 
which should be a minimum of ‘C- (C minus)’
 Cumulative result of the paraclinical course examination
• A cumulative average result is calculated from the WAM obtained for each discipline using 
the following formula.
Cumulative Average Result = Σ mi/n 
where mi = WAM for the discipline, and n = Total number of disciplines
• An overall grade point for the cumulative average result of the Paraclinical Course is allocated 
based on Table 6.
• The grade point and cumulative average result released at this point shall be referred to as the 
"results of the Third MBBS Examination".
 
Successful completion of the paraclinical course 
• A student should obtain a minimum cumulative average mark of 50.00 (grade point of 2.0) 
to obtain a “pass” in the Paraclinical Course.
 

54
Awarding classes for “Third MBBS Examination” 
The classes would be awarded for Third MBBS Examination based on the Table 7. 
 
Table 7: Cumulative average mark-based cut-off levels of grade point for awarding classes (cut-off levels of 
grade point for awarding classes are according to UGC commission circular No.901)
Cumulative Average Mark Cut-off grade Point Class
≥ 69.50 3.70 First
≥ 64.50 to < 69.50 3.30 Second Upper
≥ 59.50 to < 64.50 3.00 Second Lower
The classes are awarded only when the student has passed all disciplines on the first attempt. 
Distinctions and medals 
• Distinctions and medals in each discipline are awarded based on the weighted average 
marks (WAM) obtained for each discipline.
• Distinctions are awarded for the students with a WAM of ≥69.50 for the discipline when the 
student has passed all paraclinical disciplines on the first attempt.
• Gold medals are awarded to the students who fulfil the following criteria:
 
Gold medals 
• Prof. Danister Weilgama Gold Medal in Microbiology: Awarded to the student with the 
highest weighted average mark and Distinction in Microbiology, with a minimum of secondclass upper division in the third MBBS Examination 
• Emeritus Prof. Sarath Edirisinghe Gold Medal in Parasitology: Awarded to the student with 
the highest weighted average mark and Distinction in Parasitology, with a minimum of 
second-class upper division in the third MBBS Examination 
• Department of Community Medicine Gold Medal for the Highest Aggregate in Community 
Medicine Awarded to the student with the highest weighted average mark and Distinction 
in Community Medicine, with a minimum of second-class upper division in the third MBBS 
Examination
• Prof. Suneth Agampodi Gold Medal for Outstanding Performance in Community Medicine: 
Awarded to the student with the highest weighted average mark in field practice and a 
Distinction in Community Medicine, with a minimum of second-class lower division in the 
third MBBS Examination
• Dr. Vasana Mendis Gold Medal in Pathology: Awarded to the student with the highest 
weighted average mark and Distinction in Pathology, with a minimum of second-class upper 
division in the third MBBS Examination 
• Prof. Anura Weerasinghe Gold Medal in Pharmacology: Awarded to the student with the 

55
highest weighted average mark and Distinction in Pharmacology, with a minimum of 
second-class upper division in the third MBBS Examination 
• Department of Family Medicine Gold Medal for the Highest Aggregate in Family Medicine: 
Awarded to the student with the highest weighted average mark and Distinction in Family 
Medicine, with a minimum of second-class upper division in the third MBBS Examination
• Dr. Dhananjaya Waidyaratne Gold Medal in Forensic Medicine: Awarded to the student 
with the highest weighted average mark and Distinction in Forensic Medicine, with a 
minimum of second-class upper division in the third MBBS Examination
• Dr. A.B. Seneviratne Gold Medal for Best Overall Performance in 3rd MBBS Examination: 
Awarded to the student with the highest cumulative average result in the third MBBS 
Examination, with a minimum of second-class upper division in the third MBBS 
Examination
Year 5, equivalent to 9th and 10th semesters, is spent entirely in clinical training in professorial units at 
the THA. Successful completion of all the clinical appointments placed before the professorial clinical 
training and successful completion of the English language training are mandatory requirement to enter 
into the professorial clinical training. Hundred percent (100%) attendance is compulsory for all clinical 
appointments. At the end of the year 5, Final MBBS Examination will be held. Successful completion 
of the 3rd MBBS Part-I examination and 3rd MBBS Part-II examinations are mandatory requirements 
to sit for the Final MBBS examination. Components of the Final MBBS examination are as follows:
 
Components of the Final MBBS examination 
The MCQ paper is common to all faculties of Medicine and is held on the same day at the same time 
in all the faculties. The common MCQ examination is held twice a year. The pass mark with respect 
to each subject is described by the UGC standing committee document (section IV). The assessment 
structure of the final MBBS examination is given in Table 8. Distinctions will be awarded to the students 
who obtain a mark of ≥ 69.50 % at the first attempt. Gold medals are awarded to the students who 
fulfil the criteria given in Table 9. The students will have to complete the final MBBS within ten 
academic years from the date of entering the university.
3.4.5 Year 5 – Final Year (Clinical phase)
The list of skills expected from a medically qualified graduate that should be acquired at the end 
of the MBBS course is available in the MBBS Curriculum 

56
Table 8: Assessment of Year 5: Final MBBS examination 
Subject Components of assessment 
Medicine Common MCQ, SEQ, Long case, Short cases, OSCE, 
Viva/Portfolio/case-book/presentation
Surgery Common MCQ, SAQ, Long case, Short cases, OSCE, Viva 
Paediatrics Common MCQ, SEQ, Long case, Short cases, OSCE, Portfolio
Gynaecology and 
Obstetrics 
Common MCQ, SEQ, Gynaecology case, Obstetrics case, OSCE, 
Logbook
Psychiatry Common MCQ, SEQ, Long case, End of appointment assessment 
(MOCE, Viva)
(MCQ: Multiple Choice Questions, MOCE: Mini Observed Clinical Examination, OSPE: Objective Structured 
Practical Examinations, OSCE: Objective Structured Clinical Examination, SAQ: Short Answer Questions, SEQ: 
Structured Essay Question)
 
Table 9: Criteria for awarding gold medals at final MBBS examination
Subject Performance of 
Students
Criteria Name of the Gold 
Medal
Medicine Best performance 
in Medicine
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination & distinction in 
Medicine, highest aggregate in 
Medicine
Prof. Sisira Siribaddana 
gold medal in Medicine
Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology 
Best performance 
in Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination & distinction in 
Obstetrics & Gynaecology, 
highest aggregate in Obstetrics & 
Gynaecology
Dr. Nandana Hettigama 
gold medal in Obstetrics 
& Gynaecology
Paediatrics Best performance 
in Paediatrics
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination & distinction in 
Paediatrics, highest aggregate in 
Paediatrics
Dr. Mohamed Rayes 
Musthafa gold medal in 
Paediatrics
Surgery Best performance 
in Surgery
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination & distinction in 
Surgery, highest aggregate in 
Surgery
Prof. Arjuna Panchkori 
Ram Aluvihare gold 
medal in Surgery

57
Psychiatry Best performance 
in Psychiatry
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination & distinction in 
Psychiatry, highest aggregate in 
Psychiatry
Prof. Diyanath 
Samarasinghe gold 
medal in Psychiatry
Final MBBS 
overall 
 
 
Best overall 
performance at the 
final MBBS 
examination
Minimum of second-class upper 
division in final MBBS 
examination, highest aggregate in 
final MBBS examination (four 
subjects or five subjects)
Prof. N.J. Dahanayake 
gold medal for overall 
best performance at the 
final MBBS examination
 
3.4.6 ASSESSMENT STRUCTURE OF MBBS PROGRAMME IN FMAS 
The assessment structure of the MBBS programme of FMAS is summarized in Table 10. 
Table 10: Assessment structure of the MBBS programme
Subject Mid-course/Module 
Assessments
End course Assessment
Anatomy MCA-1: Anatomy module 1 (Y1S1) 
10 TF MCQ (2.02%);30 min
10 SAQ (2.60%); 40 min
10 OSPE (1.15%) 20 min
MCA-2: Anatomy module 2 (Y1S2) 
10 TF MCQ (2.69%); 30 min
10 SAQ (3.46%) 40 min
10 OSPE (1.54%); 20 min
MCA-2: Anatomy module 3 (Y1S2) 
10 TF MCQ (2.02%); 30 min
10 SAQ (2.60%); 40 min
10 OSPE (1.15%); 20 min
ECA-1: Anatomy module 1 (Y2S1) 
15 TF MCQ (6.06%); 45 min
2 SEQ (7.79%); 60 min
15 OSPE (3.46%); 30 min
ECA-2: Anatomy module 2 (Y2S1) 
15 TF MCQ + 5 SBA MCQ (8.08%); 60 min
2 SEQ (10.38%); 60 min
20 OSPE (4.62%); 40 min
ECA-2: Anatomy module 3 (Y2S1) 
10 TF MCQ + 5 SBA MCQ (6.06%), 45 min
2 SEQ (7.79%) 60 min
15 OSPE (3.46%); 30 min
ECA-3: Anatomy module 4 (Y2S1) 
15 TF MCQ + 5 SBA MCQ (8.08%); 60 min
2 SEQ (10.38%); 60 min
15 OSPE (4.62%); 30 min
Biochemistry MCA-1 Biochemistry module 1 
(Y1S1) 
20 TF MCQ (3.64%); 60 min
2 SEQ (3.64%); 60 min
MCA-2 Biochemistry module 2 
(Y1S2) 
20 TF MCQ (4.55%); 60 min
2 SEQ (4.55%); 60 min
ECA-1 Biochemistry module 1 (Y2S1) 
20 TF MCQ (14.55%); 60 min
3 SEQ (14.55%); 90 min
ECA-2 Biochemistry module 2 (Y2S1) 
30 T/F MCQ (18.18%); 90 min 
3 SEQ (18.18%); 90 min
ECA-3 Biochemistry module 3 (Y2S1) 
10 TF MCQ (5.45%); 30 min
1 SEQ (5.45%); 30 min
15 OSPE (7.27%); 45 min

58
Physiology MCA-1 Physiology module 1 
(Y1S1) 
7 TF MCQ + 3 SBA MCQ 
(4.00%); 30 min
1 SEQ (2.67%); 30 min
MCA-2 Physiology module 2 
(Y1S2) 
7 TF MCQ + 3 SBA MCQ 
(6.00%); 30 min
1 SEQ (4.00%); 30 min
ECA-1: Physiology module 1 (Y2S1) 
15 TF MCQ + 5 SBA MCQ (13.33%); 60 min
3 SEQ (13.33%); 90 min
ECA-2: Physiology module 2 (Y2S1) 
20 TF MCQ + 10 SBA MCQ (20.00%); 90 min
4 SEQ (20.00%); 120 min
ECA-3: Physiology module 3 (Y2S1) 
25 OSPE (16.67%); 75 min
Microbiology NA Microbiology module 1 (Y3S1) 
15 TF (15%) + 5 SBA (5%); 60 min, Practical 
(10%); 30 min, 4 SEQ (20%); 60 min
Microbiology module 2 (Y3S2) 
15 TF (11.25%) + 5 SBA (3.75%); 60 min, 20 
OSPE (17.5%); 60 min, 4 SEQ (17.5%); 60 min
Parasitology Mid moule exam (Y3S1) 
6 TF (9%) + 4 SBA (6%); 30 min,
3 SEQ (15%); 90 min
Parasitology module (Y3S2) 
14 TF (21%) + 6 SBA (9%); 60 min, 3 SEQ 
(20%); 90 min, 20 OSPE (20%); 40 min
Pathology NA Pathology module 1 (Y4S1) 
20 TF (5.33%); 60 min, 10 SBA (2.67%); 30 min
Pathology module 2 (Y4S1) 
10 TF (6%); 30 min, 10 SBA (6%); 30 min, 2 
SEQ (12%); 60 min
Pathology module 3 (Y4S2) 
5 TF (2%); 15 min, 5 SBA (2%); 15 min, 1 SEQ 
(4%); 30 min
Pathology module 4 (Y4S2) 
15 TF (12%); 45 min, 15 SBA (12%); 45 min, 3 
SEQ (16%); 90 min
Pathology module 5 (Y4S2) 
20 OSPE (20%); 60 min
Pharmacology NA Pharmacology module 1 (Y3S2) 
30 TF (17.5%): 90 min 30 SBA (17.5%); 90 min,
4 SEQ (35%); 120 min
Pharmacology module 2 (Y4S2) 
15 TF (6%); 45 min, 15 SBA (6%); 45 min, 2 
SEQ (9%); 60 min, 10 OSPE (9%); 30 min
Forensic 
Medicine 
NA Forensic Medicine module (Y4S2) 
5 SEQ (50%); 150 min, 4 SEQ (20%); 60 min 15 
OSPE (30%); 45 min 
Family Medicine NA Family Medicine module (Y4S2) 
15 TF (20%) +15 SBA (20%); 90 min, 3 SEQ 
(40%); 90 min, 10 OSCE (20%); 30 min
Community 
Medicine 
NA Community Medicine module 1 (Y3S2) 
10 TF (4%) + 10 SBA (4%); 60 min, 5 SEQ 
(12%); 60 min
Community Medicine module 2 (Y4S1) 
10 TF (3.33%) + 10 SBA (3.33%); 60 min, 3 
SEQ (6.67%); 60 min
Community Medicine module 3 (Y4S1) 

59
10 TF (3.33%) + 10 SBA (3.33%); 60 min, 3 
SEQ (6.67%); 60 min
Community Medicine module 4 (Y4S2) 
Viva Voce (10%), Family study report (10%); 20 
min/group
Community Medicine module 5 (Y4S2) 
OSPHE (20%); 60 min
Community Medicine module 6 (Y4S2) 
10 TF (3.33%) + 10 SBA (3.33%); 60 min, 3 
SEQ (6.67%); 60 min
Medicine 15 OSCE (15%), Viva, Portfolio, 
Casebook, Presentation (5%)
Final MBBS 
50 MCQ 20 TF, 30 SBA; 2 hours (20%), 06 SEQ 
(20%); 3 hours 01 Long case (20%); 40 minhistory and examination, 20 min- discussion, 04 
Short cases (20%); 30 min
Surgery 10 OSCE (10%), Viva (10%) Final MBBS 
70 MCQ (30 T/F, 40 SBA); 3 hours (20%), 08
SAQ (20%); 3 hours, 01 Long case (20%); 20 
min-history and examination, 20 mindiscussion, 04 Short case (20%); 20 min
Paediatrics 20 OSCE (15%), Portfolio (5%) Final MBBS 
50 MCQ (20 TF, 30 SBA); 2 hours (20%), 06 
SEQ (20%); 3 hours, 01 Long case (20%); 30 
min-history and examination, 20 mindiscussion, 02 Short case (20%); 15 min
Gynaecology and 
Obstetrics 
10 OSCE (10%), Logbook (10%) Final MBBS 
50 MCQ (20 TF, 30 SBA); 2 hours (20%), 05 
SEQ; 2 hours (20%), 01 Obstetric case; , (20%); 
20 min-history, 20 min-examination and 
discussion, 01 Gynaecology case (20%); 20minhistory, 20 min-examination and discussion
Psychiatry 02 MOCE (12.5%), Viva (12.5%) Final MBBS 
50 MCQ (30 TF, 20 SBA); 2 hours (25%), 06 
SEQ (25%); 3 hours, 01 Long case (25%); 30 
min-history and examination, 20 mindiscussion
(MCQ: Multiple Choice Questions, MCA: Mid-Course Assessment, ECA: End-Course Assessment, MOCE: Mini 
Observed Clinical Examination, NA: Not Applicable, OSPHE: Objective Structure Public Health Examination, 
OSPE: Objective Structured Practical Examinations, OSCE: Objective Structured Clinical Examination, SBA: Single 
Best Answer, SEQ: Structured Essay Question SAQ: Short Answer Question)
• Distinctions shall be awarded to candidates who obtain a mark of 69.50% or above on the first 
attempt
• and pass all components of a given examination.
* Academic and examination schedules are subjected to restructuring from time to time and such will be 
informed before the start of the respective programme.

60
3.5 CRITERIA FOR AWARDING DEAN’S AWARD 
Best students in each of the following categories shall be selected under the approved marking scheme
given in Table 11.
1. 2
nd MBBS result with extra-curricular activities listed in the marking scheme 
Extra- curricular activities with proven documents from the date of entrance to the FMAS, 
RUSL to the end date of 2nd MBBS repeat examination of that particular batch.
2. 3
rd MBBS with extra-curricular activities listed in the marking scheme 
Extra- curricular activities with proven documents from the date of 2nd MBBS to the end date 
of 3rd MBBS repeat examination of that particular batch.
3. Final MBBS with extra-curricular activities listed in the marking scheme 
Extra- curricular activities with proven documents from 3rd MBBS repeat examination to the 
end date of Final MBBS repeat examination of that particular batch.
• A notice on Deans list will be displayed on students’ notice boards after every 2nd MBBS repeat, 
3
rd MBBS repeat and Final MBBS repeat examinations. Students who sat for the relevant 
examinations can apply for the award. 
• Students who have applied for the award on or before the deadline will be considered for the award 
and late submissions will be rejected. 
• List of students who are eligible to be in the Deans list for a particular examination will be tabled 
at the faculty board.
• A certificate of achievement and the Dean’s Gold Medal will be awarded for the best student of 
each category at an award ceremony held at the consequent Inauguration ceremony for the new 
entrance of FMAS, RUSL 
Table 11: Marking scheme for Dean’s Awards
Criteria Description Maximum 
Marks 
Minimum
Academic
Overall aggregate mark of 
the examination 
2
nd MBBS/3rd MBBS/ Final MBBS Out of 400 240 
Academic
Distinctions 
20 for each distinction
(percentage for 3rd MBBS out of 60 
and 2nd MBBS and Final MBBS out 
of 100)
100
Sports Places in inter-faculty fresher's 
meets (1st, 2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 10; 2nd = 8; 3rd = 5
No minimum 
requirement
Places in inter-faculty meets (1st, 
2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 20; 2nd = 15; 3rd = 10
Places in other sports meets 
(evaluated at the discretion of the 
committee)
1
st = 5; 2nd = 3; 3rd = 2

61
Places in Inter University games (1st, 
2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 40; 2nd = 30; 3rd = 20
Places in National level 
achievements (1st, 2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 50; 2nd = 45; 3rd = 40
Places in International sports events 
(1st, 2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 60; 2nd = 50; 3rd = 45
International participation
(40 for each)
University colors (30 for each)
Societies President, Secretary of Student 
Union 
30 No minimum 
requirement
Other office bearers of Students 
Union (2 for each)
20
President, Secretary of approved 
Student Societies 
25
Other office bearers of approved 
Student Societies (1 for each)
10
Any other positions (evaluated at the 
discretion of the committee)
Cultural/ Aesthetic Participation in international/ 
national cultural events (40 for each)
100
Participation in University cultural 
events
(20 for each event)
Places in inter University cultural 
events (1st, 2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 40; 2nd = 30; 3rd = 20
Participation in faculty cultural 
events
(10 for each event)
Places in inter-faculty cultural 
events (1st, 2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 20; 2nd = 15; 3rd = 10
Places in faculty cultural events (1st, 
2nd or 3rd)
1
st = 10; 2nd = 8; 3rd = 5
Organizing committees 
(cultural/ social/ sports/ 
academic event/ 
symposia/ religious)
Chairperson or secretary of the 
university organizing committee (5 
for each) 
20 No minimum 
requirement
Member of the committee (2 for 
each)
10
Research and publications Engaging in extracurricular research 
as research team member/ 
individual research (individual 
research = 20 for each; group 
research = 5 for each)
100 No minimum 
requirement

62
Abstract presentations (individual 
research = 30 for each; group 
research = 20 for each; presenting 
author = 30)
Publications
(first author = 50, corresponding 
author = 40, other authors = 30) 
Innovations/ Patents *Non patented innovation (30 for 
each)
80 No minimum 
requirement
Locally patented innovation (60 for 
each)
International patented innovation 
(80 for each)
Social work *Active participation/ member of 
Faculty welfare work (5 for each)
60 No minimum 
requirement
*Active participation/ member of 
university welfare work (10 for each) 
*Active participation/ member of 
national level welfare work (40 for 
each) 
*Active participation/ member of 
international level welfare work (60 
for each) 
*Member of a welfare society (5 for 
each society)
*A valid document should be provided as evidence 
Eligibility criteria
1. To be eligible for this award, a candidate must have obtained a 2nd class lower division or above in 
the first attempt of the examinations (2nd MBBS / 3rd MBBS /Final MBBS) held during the respective 
year, along with at least one extra-curricular activity related to the 7 criteria mentioned in the 
application.
2. Students can score marks under 7 criteria. The minimum mark for academic work will be 240. The 
student with the highest score will receive the award.
3. Final decision regarding the Dean’s list should be approved at the faculty board, FMAS, RUSL. 
4. Any candidate who has been punished at a personal level by the university and/or warned (in 
writing) by the Vice Chancellor or Deputy Vice Chancellor or Dean as found guilty for any misconduct 
(i.e violation of university rules and regulations, examination rules and regulations, damage to the 
image of the university/faculty during her/his university career (up to the respective year) shall not be 
eligible for an award.
 
Application procedure
1. Students shall apply for the award using the application form issued by the university. 
Application forms shall be available at Deans office and can be downloaded from the 
University website. 

63
2. Students shall submit certified copies of all documentary evidence with the application. 
Applications without supporting evidence shall be rejected.
3. Students shall submit their applications through their mentors/academic advisers who shall 
certify the contents of the applications. 
4. Students shall prepare and participate for an interview if the selection panel requests.
3.6 COMMON MERIT LIST
The common merit list of all graduates in the state universities is prepared, on performance at the final 
MBBS examination, by the UGC and sent to the Ministry of Health after the final MBBS exam for 
internship appointments. Raw MCQ marks and Z scores of clinical exams are taken into account when 
preparing the common merit list.
 
3.7 INTERNSHIP
Successful completion of the internship is compulsory to obtain Sri Lanka medical council (SLMC)
registration and to practice Medicine in Sri Lanka. It is a part of training to become a medical doctor. 
Without the internship and SLMC registration, you are unable to practice medicine in Sri Lanka.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 GENERAL EXAMINATION RULES AND REGULATIONS 
1. Candidates shall be in attendance outside the examination hall Attendance at least 15 minutes 
before the commencement of each paper but shall not enter the halls until they are requested to do 
so by the supervisor.
2. Candidates shall dress in smart professional attire and wear a white clinical coat at the clinical 
examinations and laboratory practical examinations. Casual wear (i.e. shorts, t-shirts and flip flop) 
are not permitted. Both ears must be kept uncovered.
3. Candidates shall comply with the instructions given by the supervisor and/ or displayed at the 
entrance of the examination hall. Candidates shall adhere to the instructions given by the supervisor 
 4. RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXAMINATIONS 

64
and Invigilators from before the commencement of the examination until they leave the 
examination hall.
4. Candidates shall enter the examination hall only when the supervisor permits them to do so.
5. Candidates shall enter the examination hall in an orderly manner and proceed straight to the 
designated seat indicated by the index number written on the desk and be seated. On admission to 
the hall, a candidate shall occupy the seat allocated to him/her and shall not change it except on 
the specific instruction of the supervisor.
6. No candidate shall be admitted to the examination hall for any reason whatsoever after the expiry 
of half an hour from the commencement of the examination. Nor shall a candidate be allowed to 
leave the hall until half an hour has lapsed from the commencement of the examination or during 
the last 15 minutes of the paper.
7. Candidates shall leave all personal belongings other than the material permitted at the examination 
hall while entering the examination hall. The only form of written or printed material allowed in the 
examination is the proof of identity (student identity card/ student record book carrying the 
photograph of the candidate/ any other proof as accepted by the supervisor) and the admission 
card. Other written and printed material may be allowed in open-book examinations. Special 
devices may be allowed by the supervisor for candidates with special needs.
8. Possession of communication devices such as cell phones, pagers, smart-phones, smart-watches, 
tabs, etc., or possession of any other unauthorized electronic device in the exam hall is an 
examination offence. Whether they are used or not is immaterial, mere possession of them in the 
exam hall is an examination offence.
9. A candidate shall have his/her university identity card, student record book and admission card 
(hereafter named ‘Identification Document/s’), with him/her in the examination hall on every 
occasion he/she presents himself/herself for a paper. His/her candidature is liable to be cancelled 
if he/she does not produce the Identification Documents when requested to do so. If he/she failed 
to bring his/ her Identification Documents on any occasion, he/she shall sign a declaration in 
respect of that paper for which he/she has not produced the Identification document/s in the form 
provided for it, and produce the Identification Documents on the next occasion when he appears 
for the examination. If it is the last paper or the only paper, he/she is sitting, he/she shall produce 
the identification document/s to the assistant registrar, FMAS, on the following day. If a candidate 
loses his/her Identification Document/s during the course of an examination, he/she shall obtain 
the duplicates from the assistant registrar, FMAS, for production at the examination hall.
10. Candidates should sign the admission cards in the presence of the supervisor or invigilator who 
shall witness each signature.
11. A candidate whose name on the proof of identity and the admission card differ in any manner shall 
submit a declaration at the end of the examination to the Supervisor admitting the incongruity and 

65
produce an affidavit certifying that both names refer to the same candidate, within a week after the 
examination.
12. Candidates shall bring their pens, ink, erasers, pencils or any other approved equipment or 
stationery which they have been instructed to bring.
13. No candidate shall have on his/her person or in his/her clothes or on the admission card, 
timetables, record book or any other object he/she is permitted to bring into the examination hall, 
any notes, signs and formulae or any other unauthorized material. Books, notes, parcels, handbags, 
cellular phones, pagers and other communication equipment etc. that a candidate has brought with 
him/her should be kept at a place indicated by the supervisor or invigilator. The supervisor/ 
invigilator shall not take responsibility in case any of these materials are lost. A candidate may be 
required by the supervisor to declare any item in his/her possession or person.
14. A candidate shall disclose any items in one’s possession or person if requested by the supervisor or 
an Invigilator.
15. Candidates shall not start answering until they are notified to do so implicitly or explicitly.
16. Every candidate shall enter his/her index number at the appropriate place on the answer book and 
on every continuation paper. He/she shall enter all necessary particulars as indicated on the cover 
of the answer book. A candidate who inserts in his/her script an index number other than his/her 
own is liable to be considered as having attempted to cheat. The supervisor/invigilator has the 
authority to check the answer scripts of candidates. A script that bears no index number or an index 
number, which cannot be identified, is liable to be rejected. No candidate shall write his/her name 
or any other identifying mark on the answer scripts.
17. Examination stationery (i.e., answer books, continuation sheets etc.) will be issued as and when 
necessary. No answer book or continuation sheet issued to a candidate may be torn, crumpled, 
folded or otherwise mutilated. No papers other than those issued to him/her by the supervisor or 
invigilator shall be used by a candidate. All material supplied whether used or unused, other than 
the answer scripts, shall be left behind on the desk and not removed from the examination halls.
18. Candidates are under the authority of the supervisor and shall assist him/her in carrying out his/her 
instructions and those of invigilators, during the examination and immediately before and after it.
19. A candidate shall neither seek nor obtain academic help from the supervisor, an invigilator, an 
examiner or any other person, unless specifically permitted. Nor shall any candidate use any unfair 
means, obtain, or render improper assistance at the examination.
20. A candidate shall neither lend nor borrow any material from any other candidate, without the 
permission of the supervisor.

66
21. A candidate shall neither help nor attempt to help another candidate or act negligently so that 
another candidate has the opportunity of copying. Nor shall any candidate either help another 
candidate or obtain help from another candidate or any other person.
22. A candidate shall neither communicate nor attempt to communicate in any manner with another 
candidate or any person other than authorized persons.
23. A candidate shall neither copy from nor attempt to copy from any other candidate.
24. A candidate shall neither copy from nor attempt to copy from any unauthorized material. The 
presence of unauthorized material on one’s desk or near the candidate during a written examination 
will be deemed as an attempt to copy.
25. Every candidate shall conduct himself/herself in the examination hall and its precincts so as not to 
cause disturbance or inconvenience to the supervisor or his/her staff or other candidates. In 
entering and leaving the hall, he/she shall conduct himself as quietly as possible. A candidate is 
liable to be excluded from the examination hall for disorderly conduct.
26. Absolute silence shall be maintained in the examination hall and its precincts. A candidate is not 
permitted for any reason whatsoever to communicate or to have any dealings with any person 
other than the supervisor or invigilator. The attention of the supervisor or invigilator shall be drawn 
by the candidate by raising his/her hand from where he/she is seated.
27. After the examination has commenced no candidate shall be permitted to leave the examination 
hall even temporarily. In case of an emergency, the supervisor or invigilator shall grant him/her 
permission to do so but the candidate will be under his/her constant surveillance.
28. A candidate shall write and draw only on the answer books or other stationery which carry the date 
stamp and a signature of an Invigilator provided for the particular examination unless specifically 
allowed otherwise. Candidates shall not write/draw on any other paper/documents/objects during 
the examination. Such actions shall be interpreted as having been written beforehand, with the 
intention of copying.
29. All calculations and rough work shall be done only on paper supplied for the examination, which 
carries the date stamp and signature of an invigilator, and shall be cancelled and attached to the 
answer scripts. Such work should not be done on admission cards, timetables, question papers, 
student record books, or any other paper or object. Any candidate who disregards these instructions 
is liable to be considered as having written notes or outlines of answers with the intention of 
copying.
30. Candidates must write the index number assigned to her/ him on each answer script. A candidate 
shall write neither her/his name nor any identification mark on the answer script.
31. Candidates must gather and arrange all sheets of answers in order, and tie them up in preparation 
for ending the examination when the Supervisor announce so.

67
32. Any answer or part of the answer not to be considered for assessment shall be neatly crossed out 
by the candidate. If the same question has been attempted in more than one place the answer or 
answers that are not to be considered shall be neatly crossed out.
33. Candidates must take good care of the material, such as charts, tables, slides, specimens, calculators 
etc. for their use at the examination and return. They also shall not tear, crumple, fold or otherwise 
mutilate the stationery provided to them. Candidates must leave all the material provided by the 
University on the desk for collection by the hall staff or the examiners at the end of the examination.
34. Candidates shall stop work promptly when ordered by the supervisor or invigilator to do so. If this 
instruction is not strictly followed, the supervisor or invigilator has the authority to make an 
endorsement to this effect on the answer scripts and/or report to the authorities.
35. Every candidate shall hand over the answer script personally to the supervisor or invigilator or 
remain in his seat until it is collected. On no account shall a candidate hand over his/her answer 
script to an attendant, a minor employee or another candidate. The MCQ question paper should 
also be returned to the invigilator or supervisor. It should not be removed from the examination 
hall by a candidate unless the supervisor instructs them to do so.
36. Candidates shall leave the examination hall keeping calm and silent when asked to do so by the 
Supervisor.
37. A candidate who has handed over his/her answer script is not entitled to call it back under any 
circumstance.
38. No candidate shall remove his/her or any other candidate’s answer script from the examination 
hall.
39. No candidate shall submit a practical or field book or dissertation or project study or term paper or 
assessment or answer script which has been done wholly or partly by anyone other than the 
candidate himself/ herself (except where the examiner has given prior permission for joint or 
collaborative work to be submitted).
40. A candidate shall not submit, as his own, the reproduction of someone else’s work, including 
material and ideas.
41. No person shall impersonate a candidate at the examination, nor shall any candidate allow himself 
to be so impersonated by another person.
42. Serious actions will be taken against any dishonest assistance given to a candidate, by any person.
43. Any candidate found aiding and abetting the commission of any examination offence shall be liable 
to the same punishment as that applicable to the offence.

68
44. The supervisor/ invigilator is empowered to require any candidate to make a statement in writing 
on any matter, which may have arisen during the course of the examination, and such statement 
shall be signed by the candidate. No candidate shall refuse to make such a statement or to sign it. 
A Candidate is obliged to follow an order by the Supervisor or an Invigilator on her/ his behalf to 
make a statement in writing on any matter which may arise during the course of the examination 
and such statement shall be written and signed by the candidate.
45. No candidate shall contact any person other than the vice chancellor, dean, head of the department, 
director-Examinations, FMAS, Assistant Registrar, FMAS or the Registrar regarding any matter 
concerning the examination. 
Every candidate who registers for an examination shall be deemed to have sat the examination 
unless:
a. He/she is permitted by the Senate for valid reasons to withdraw from such examination on a 
ground acceptable to the Senate within the specified period, or 
b. He/she submits a medical certificate before the commencement of the examination. The 
medical certificate shall be from the university medical officer (UMO). The medical certificate 
obtained from a practitioner or an institution other than UMO should be submitted with the 
recommendation of UMO. Medical certificates should be submitted to the examinations 
division, FMAS, with the completed form, at the earliest possible time point, but in any case, 
not later than one week from the first day of the examination. Delayed medical certificates 
may be entertained under special circumstances with the recommendation of the Faculty 
Board, FMAS. Applications shall be forwarded to the Senate with the recommendation of the 
faculty board, FMAS. In case of candidates who fall sick during (or in the midst of) an 
examination, the above procedure should be adhered.
46. When a candidate is unable to present himself /herself for any part or section of an examination, 
he/she shall notify or cause to be notified of this fact to the Assistant Registrar, FMAS, immediately. 
This should be confirmed in writing with supporting documents within 48 hours by the registered 
post.
47. No student shall sit an examination if he /she has exhausted the number of attempts that he/she is 
allowed to sit that particular examination unless he/she has been granted special permission to do 
so by the Senate. The request of the candidate should be submitted to the faculty board, FMAS, 
with the completed grace chance application form, and it shall be forwarded for the 
recommendation of the Senate with the recommendation of the Faculty Board, FMAS. Please refer 
the bylaw on grace chance, FMAS, RUSL for further details.
48. No student shall sit an examination if he /she has spent beyond the maximum ten-year period from 
the date of registration unless he/she has been granted special permission to do so by the Senate. 
The request of the candidate should be submitted to the Faculty Board, FMAS, with the completed 
grace chance application form, and it shall be forwarded for the recommendation of the Senate with 

69
the recommendation of the faculty board, FMAS. Please refer the bylaw on grace chance, FMAS, 
RUSL for further details.
49. A student who withdraws or absents himself from the examination shall not be eligible for classes 
at the next examination unless the senate decides otherwise.
4.2 EXAMINATION IRREGULARITIES/OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENTS 
The regulations concerning;
1. examination procedures, examination irregularities and punishments prepared by the committee 
appointed at the 162nd and 174th University Senate Meetings on 16th May 2013 and 20th June 2014 
respectively. 
These amended regulations will be referred to as “No. 1 of 1989 regulations concerning examination 
procedures, examination irregularities and punishments (amended) 2014” and is effective from 20th
August 2015. 
 
2. sections related to examination offences and punishments for candidates in the Manual of 
Procedure for Conduct of Examinations, FMAS, RUSL approved at the 167th faculty board meeting 
held on 08th November 2023, 257th University Senate Meeting held on 30th November 2023, and 
282nd meeting of the council held on the 29th July 2024. 
 
A. EXAMINATION IRREGULARITIES/OFFENCES 
Examination irregularities/offences are classified briefly as follows. 
a. Possession of unauthorized documents or removal of examination stationery
b. Possession of communication devices such as cell phones, pagers, smartphones, smart watches, 
tabs, etc. Whether they are used or not is immaterial, mere possession of them in the exam hall is 
an examination offence
c. Possession of any unauthorized electronic device. Whether they are used or not is immaterial, 
mere possession of them in the exam hall is an examination offence
d. Copying1
e. Obtaining or attempting to obtain improper assistance or cheating2 or attempting to cheat
f. Impersonation3
g. Plagiarism4
h. Attempting to get to know (a) question(s) or part of a question before the examination or during 
the examination through any person in an unauthorized manner 
i. Attempting to reveal (a) question(s) or part of a question to another candidate before the 
examination or during the examination
j. Disorderly conduct5
k. Violation of any of the requirements or conditions in the examination procedure in section 12 of 
this document

70
l. Violation of any of the examination rules for the candidates in section 24 of this document
m. Aiding and abetting the commission of any of these offences listed above (a to l)
1 Communicating answers from or to another person
2 Acts of fraud, deceit, or dishonesty in an academic assignment including examination, or using 
or attempting to use or assist others in using materials including communication devices that are 
prohibited or inappropriate in the context of an academic assignment including examination to 
gain undue advantage, and removal of stationery belonging to the University that is pertaining to 
examinations from the examination hall
3 An act of pretending to be another person for the purpose of fraud or using another person to 
pretend to be self
4 The practice of taking someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own
5 Unruly behaviours, not heeding to instructions of or influencing the Supervisor, Invigilator(s) and 
other staff, any act that may disrupt the conduct of the examination
The classification given above is not exhaustive and the categories given above are not mutually 
exclusive. Violating a single procedure in section 12 of the Manual of Procedure for Conduct of 
Examinations or violating a single rule mentioned above in section 4.1 of the Manual may amount to 
more than one offence classified above. The University Examination Disciplinary Committee shall 
decide the offence or offences by careful consideration of the available facts. The Table 12 below shall 
be used as a guide to decoding the offence or offences.
Table 12: Examination offences and examination rule violations
Examination offence 
as classified in 4.2 A Violated examination rule or rules in 4.1
a 6, 12, 16, 32, 34, 37
b 7, 12
c 7, 12
d 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 39
e 6, 7, 12, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27, 28, 38, 39, 41
f 40
g 38, 39
h 18, 21
i 21
j 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 15, 16, 17,18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, 37
k 
Applicable all sections 12 in the Manual of Procedure for Conduct of 
Examinations of FMAS (not amounted to a-j)
l Applicable all the sections in 4.1 (not amounted to a-j)
m Applicable all the sections in 4.1

71
B. PUNISHMENTS FOR EXAMINATION IRREGULARITIES/OFFENCES 
Punishments for examination irregularities/offences are given in Table 13. 
Table 13: Summary of punishments for examination offences
Irregularity/ 
Offence
Minimum Punishment Maximum Punishment
a, b, c, j, k, l Severe warning Cancellation of the candidature from all the 
subjects of the particular main examination 
in which the offence was committed and 
three additional main examinations with or 
without suspension from the University for 
the same period. 
d, e Cancellation of the candidature 
from the all the components of 
the subject in which the offence 
was committed. 
Cancellation of the candidature from all the 
subjects of the particular main examination 
in which the offence was committed and 
three additional main examinations with or 
without suspension from the University for 
the same period.
 
f Cancellation of the candidature 
from all the subjects of the main 
examination in which the 
offence was committed and 
suspension from the University 
for six additional semesters, 
including examinations. 
Expulsion as a student of the University and/ 
or appropriate legal action. 
g 
(In a 
continuous 
assessment), 
h, i 
Cancellation of the candidature 
from the particular component 
of the subject in which the 
offence was committed. 
Cancellation of the candidature from all the 
components of the subject in which the 
offence was committed and two additional 
semesters. 
g 
(In a main 
examination) 
Cancellation of the candidature 
from all the components of the 
subject in which the offence was 
committed. 
Expulsion as a student of the University 
and/or appropriate legal action 
m Severe warning Expulsion as a student of the University 
and/or appropriate legal action 
 
 
 
 
The University Examination Disciplinary Committee shall be at liberty to increase the 
punishments prescribed here, considering the nature of the examination irregularity/offence 
committed. The punishments recommended by the University Examination Disciplinary 
Committee will be executed on the approval of the University Senate. 

72
4.3 RULES OF THE MBBS PROGRAMME 
1. The maximum period of study in the faculty is 10 calendar years from the date of student 
registration at FMAS, RUSL.
2. Examinations will be conducted by a panel of examiners in accordance with the regulations of the 
FMAS, RUSL and the university (Examination by-laws).
3. The summative examination immediately following the completion of a course – pre-clinical, 
para-clinical and clinical shall be deemed to be the ‘first available examination’.
4. To ‘Sit an Examination’ denotes taking all components of the examination required to complete 
the said examination, at one and the same sitting.
5. A student must sit the first available examination unless a valid excuse has been submitted to the 
faculty and accepted by the Senate.
6. The first available opportunity to sit an examination shall be considered the first attempt whether 
the student sits the examination or not. In the event of an ‘excuse’ submitted to the faculty for 
failure to sit an available examination being accepted by the Senate, that examination shall not be 
considered an attempt.
7. If the excuse for failure to sit the first available examination has been accepted by the Senate, the 
examination immediately following the expiry of the period of postponement recommended by 
the FMAS and accepted by the Senate shall be the student’s first attempt. Any subsequent attempt 
must be taken at the very next available examination, subject to the provision with respect to a 
valid excuse.
8. In the absence of an acceptable excuse, failure to sit the first available examination will be 
considered an unsuccessful attempt at the examination.
9. Successful completion of all three subject courses (Anatomy, Biochemistry and Physiology) is a 
mandatory requirement to sit for the relevant module examinations of the 2
nd MBBS examination 
(successful completion includes a minimum of 80% attendance to specified components during 
the module and submission of assignments/tutorials or any other assigned tasks).
10. A student will only be allowed to sit a maximum of four times for an end-course examination of 
any particular module at the 2nd MBBS examination, and passing the 2nd MBBS examination is 
compulsory to proceed to the 4th semester.
11. Successful completion of Parasitology and Microbiology, Community Medicine, Forensic 
Medicine, Pathology, Pharmacology, and Family Medicine courses is a mandatory requirement
to sit for the relevant module examination of the 3rd MBBS examination (successful completion 
includes a minimum of 80% attendance to specified components during the module and 
submission of assignments/tutorials or any other assigned tasks).

73
12. Completion of Community Medicine, Forensic Medicine, Clinical Pathology, and Family 
Medicine clinical appointments are compulsory to sit for the relevant module examination of the
3rd MBBS examination. (successful completion of the clinical appointments includes 100% 
attendance of clinical appointments, completion of assignments, and verification of the 
competence by the clinical trainer) *.
13. Successful completion of the 3rd MBBS examination is a mandatory requirement to sit for the 
Final MBBS examination.
14. Successful completion of the clinical appointments placed before the professorial clinical training, 
namely introductory clinical appointment, MS1, MS2, POG appointments, and short 
appointments set 1 and set 2 are mandatory requirements to enter into the professorial clinical 
training (successful completion of the clinical appointments includes 100% attendance clinical 
appointments, completion of assignments, and verification of the competence by the clinical 
trainer) *.
15. Successful completion of the English language training is mandatory to proceed with the 
professorial clinical training.
16. Successful completion of the Research in Medicine module is mandatory to award the degree
17. Successful completion of the professorial clinical training is a mandatory requirement to sit for the 
Final MBBS examination (successful completion of the clinical appointments includes 100% 
attendance clinical appointments, completion of assignments, and verification of the competence 
by the clinical trainer) *.
18. Successful completion of the personal and professional development stream is mandatory to 
award the degree (successful completion includes a minimum of 80% attendance to teaching 
learning activities during the module and submission of assignments/tutorials/ scenario-based 
case presentations or any other assigned tasks).
19. The maximum final mark that can be achieved for a subject/discipline in the subsequent attempt 
of the examination is 50%.
20. If a student scores < 24.50% in any one of the modules in any discipline offered in a given 
examination, he/she is considered to have failed in all the modules of all disciplines offered in that 
particular examination. It will not affect the modules of the same examination passed in previous 
attempts and the mid-module examinations.
* Requirements and components are specified in the curriculum document
(MS 1: Medicine & Surgery First Appointment, MS 2: Medicine & Surgery Second Appointment, 
POG: Paediatrics and Gynaecology and Obstetrics Appointment)
For more information, please refer to the Manual of Procedure for Conduct of Examinations
 

74
 
 
 
Students should maintain proper standards of conduct and behaviour within the faculty, healthcare 
settings, and hostels and also outside. Student should be aware of the laws, rules and regulations of 
Republic of Sri Lanka, RUSL and FMAS (eg; university act 1978 and amendments in 1988 and, by-laws
(by-laws on student discipline and examination by-laws of RUSL) and disciplinary codes related to 
university undergraduates. Please note that not knowing the rules and regulations shall not be 
considered excusable. All the students should respect privacy and dignity of fellow students and staff 
and should treat all the students equally without any discrimination.
Students should not behave, in society or in the webspace including social media, in a manner that 
brings disrepute to the university. A student guilty of a misdemeanour is liable to be suspended for a 
varying period or be expelled from the University. A few matters relating to conduct and discipline are 
highlighted below.
 
 
 
 
5.1 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS 
STUDENT IDENTITY CARD 
Students must obtain their identity cards on admission to this University from the student registration 
branch, housed in the Senate building at Mihintale. The student identity card must be carried by the 
student during all times when within faculty premises. If lost, it must be immediately reported to Dean’s 
office with a police certificate to that effect. An additional fee will be charged for replacement of the 
identity card.
 5. DISCIPLINE AND CONDUCT 
Medical students are warned that it is illegal to engage in any form of medical practice, such as 
working with a general practitioner even under supervision, before lawfully qualifying as a 
doctor. Doing so could result in severe disciplinary action by the faculty and prosecution by the 
police in a court of law. The Sri Lanka Medical Council could even withhold registration to 
practice as a medical practitioner in Sri Lanka. 
Student Charter 

75
STUDENT REGISTRATION
In accordance with the rules of the RUSL, students are required to register at the commencement of the 
academic programme, and at the beginning of each academic year thereafter. Registration will be 
coordinated by the students service unit, FMAS.
DRESS 
All medical students are expected to adhere to this dress code throughout the MBBS programme, 
including during lectures, practical sessions, and clinical training. Compliance with these standards is 
essential to maintain the professional image and integrity of the medical profession.
The MBBS programme is a professional degree that trains future medical practitioners. From the day 
you enter the FMAS, you are regarded as a doctor-in-training. Your dress and appearance reflect your 
professionalism, discipline, and respect for patients, peers, and the medical community. Therefore, all 
students are required to maintain an appearance that upholds the dignity and ethical standards 
expected of medical students.
The following guidelines must be strictly observed:
General requirements
• Dress must be clean, neat, simple, and professional at all times.
• Attire and grooming must be appropriate to the medical profession and healthcare 
environment.
Male students
• Should wear tucked-in button-down shirts, formal-style trousers, socks, and covered shoes.
• Wearing casual attire such as jeans, cargo trousers, denim trousers, shorts, t-shirts, sandals, 
or flip-flops is not permitted.
• Hair must be neatly cut and well-groomed, and the face clean-shaven.
Female students
• Should wear smart-casual professional attire, such as blouses, button-down shirts, kurtas, 
skirts or dresses covering the knees when seated, shalwars, abayas, or hijabs/headscarves.
• Inappropriate or revealing clothing (e.g., low-cut necklines, skirts or dresses above knee 
level, jeans, cargo or denim trousers, cropped pants, or attire exposing the midriff or thighs) is 
not allowed.
• Rubber slippers are not acceptable.
• Hair must be neatly tied back during laboratory sessions and clinical work to ensure safety 
and prevent contamination.
Personal grooming
• Fingernails must be short and clean; long nails, nail art, and dark nail polish are not 
permitted.
• Jewellery should be minimal and must not interfere with patient contact or learning activities.
• Tattoos must remain covered at all times.

76
• Good personal hygiene must be maintained. Use of mild deodorants is acceptable, but strong 
perfumes or colognes should be avoided, especially in clinical and patient-care settings.
• Covering the face during teaching, learning, or examination activities is not permitted.
Clinical and laboratory attire
• A white clinical coat must be worn for all clinical and laboratory practical sessions and 
examinations.
• In healthcare settings where there is a risk of infection transmission, scrubs may be worn.
• Scrubs must be clean, well-fitting, and well-maintained.
• Coloured t-shirts must not be worn underneath scrubs.
• Closed-toe, non-slip shoes must be worn with scrubs.
• A clearly visible name badge must be worn on the upper part of the scrub or attire during 
clinical work.
• Scrubs are to be worn only within hospital and faculty premises and must not be worn during 
leisure activities or in public places outside healthcare institutions.
DISSATISFACTION AND DISCONTENT 
Student disagreement, dissatisfaction and discontent had been dealt with through dialogue and not 
through strikes from the beginning of the faculty. We believe that strikes are not weapons to be used by 
medical students and doctors. 
 
ALCOHOL, SMOKING AND ILLICIT DRUGS 
Consumption of alcohol, illicit drugs and smoking on faculty premises and in hostels is strictly forbidden. 
Serious disciplinary actions shall be taken for such misbehaviours.
 
TIDINESS AND CLEANLINESS OF THE FACULTY 
Please keep the faculty clean and tidy. Litter should be thrown into litter bins. Students are not permitted 
to paste posters on walls. They may be displayed on a frame. Toilets and student discussion areas should 
be kept clean.
 
PUNCTUALITY AND ATTENDANCE 
Students must make every effort not to be late for classes. Minimum of 80% attendance is required at 
lectures, practical sessions, small group discussions, tutorials and problem-based learning sessions in 
order to sit for the next exam. Hundred percent (100%) attendance is mandatory for the successful 
completion of clinical appointments.
students who do not have a sufficient percentage of attendance for at least one subject are not 
eligible for all the subjects of the particular examination 

77
A student should not be absent without leave. Students who require leave should apply in writing to the 
Dean in advance (Annexure 1). If absence is due to unforeseen circumstances, the leave application 
should be submitted as soon as possible, not later than the first day of the student’s return to the class.
In case of illness extending for three days or more, a medical certificate issued by the chief medical
officer (CMO) of RUSL should be submitted to the Dean. If a medical certificate is issued by a doctor 
other than the CMO, it should be certified by the CMO. The medical certificate submission form
available at Examinations division should be used when submitting medical certificates for 
examinations related matters.
FEES AND PAYMENTS 
Fees, where necessary, should be paid on due dates.
MEETINGS/FUNCTIONS OF STUDENT SOCIETIES/BODIES
Student societies shall hold meetings/functions subject on the condition that prior permission has been 
obtained from the Dean. 
Such requests should be forwarded through the senior treasurer of the society and should contain the 
following particulars: 
• Time date and place of the meeting/function 
• Names of speakers (where applicable) and 
• Whether any person other than a student or a teacher of the Rajarata University of Sri Lanka 
has been invited to the meeting 
5.2 RAGGING 
Ragging (navakavadaya) in any form is considered a grave offence. The faculty has declared that it has 
zero tolerance for ragging. The student if proved to have engaged in any form of ragging will have to 
face serious disciplinary actions such as suspension or expulsion. The offences listed in the prohibition 
of ragging and other forms of violence in educational institutions act no.20 of 1998 (Annexure 2) are:
a) forcible occupation and damage to property of an educational institution
b) ragging
c) hostage taking
d) wrongful restraint
e) unlawful confinement
Any incident of ragging should be reported to the dean, deputy proctor of FMAS, student counsellors
immediately. In addition, students are encouraged to use the online complaints and redress mechanism 
for ragging, that has been developed and centrally managed by the UGC with the aim of establishing a 
violence free environment in universities where students and staff can work with security and dignity .
 
 
 
Deputy Proctor, FMAS Prof. W W Kumbukgolla Phone: +9476 7079768
UGC Ragging complaint portal 
 

78
6.1 STUDENT COUNSELLING SERVICES 
Student counsellors (Table 14) are available in the faculty to support students in their personal health 
and academic matters. The names and contact details of the current student counsellors are as follows:
Table 14: Student counsellors of FMAS
Name Designation Department Contact no 
Dr. S M B H Abeyrathna Senior Student Counsellor Psychiatry 071-8439070
Dr. W S M K J Senanayake Student Counsellor (Male) Surgery 077-2094131
Dr. M I M Shuja Student Counsellor (Male) Physiology 077-7002294
Dr. W G S S Waiddyanatha Student Counsellor (Female) Parasitology 070-2405577
Dr. D M P L K Abeyrathna Student Counsellor (Female) Family Medicine 077-1847280
 
6.2 HEALTH SERVICES 
The student health centre is a faculty resource and a walk-in medical service centre for all 
medical students of the faculty. The main goal of the student health centre is to maximize the 
student's academic performance by supporting them in maintaining the best possible physical 
and mental health in a confidential, safe and nurturing environment. The centre is located on the 
ground floor of the paraclinical building and operates from 12.00 noon to 1.00 pm on working 
days. The university health centre is located on the main campus. It also provides healthcare 
facilities to all university students at a daily outpatient service.
Services
 Emergency care Primary care
Wound care Maintenance of confidential student health records 
Referrals to specialists Provision of advice on ergonomics
Teleconsultation Counselling
Doctor in-charge Dr. D M P L K Abeyrathna
Support staff Ms. K D A I M Dissanayake

79
6.3 ACCOMMODATION
All students who fulfil the eligibility criteria to receive hostel facilities will be provided
with hostels for accommodation from the first year onwards.
 
Academic wardens 
 
Dr. W S M K J Senanayake
(Academic warden-male)
Senior Lecturer Grade II
Department of Surgery
+9477 2094131
Dr. A M M V Kumari
(Academic warden-female)
Senior Lecturer Grade II
Department of Physiology
+9471 3103809 / +9477 5868648
 
Sub wardens 
• Mr. N D Jayasinghe - Subwarden (Male) - +9471 7332557 
• Ms. D M J S Dissanayake - Subwarden (Female) - +9471 4458653
Support staff 
• Ms. R M Dissanayaka
Main Hostels 
• Pandukabhaya Hostel, Bulankulama, Disamawatha, Stage 2, Anuradhapura
• Wijayabahu Hostel, Faculty Premises, Saliyapura
 
Other Hostels (Male)
• Amarasiri Hostel, Thepppankulama, Saliyapura
• Dias Hostel, Paniyankadawala Rd, Saliyapura
• Gnanasiri Hostel, Saliyapura
• KMGP Karawita, 435, Old post 4, Pankulama, Jaffna Rd, Saliyapura
• L Liyanage, 92, Old Water Tank Rd, Theppankulama, Saliyapura
• Ranaweera hostel, No 27/B, Gamsabha Mawataha, Puliyankulama
Other Hostels (Female) 
• Amarasena Hostel, Anuradhapura 
• Ground Hostel, Faculty Premises, Saliyapura 
• Kandakulama Hostel, Anuradhapura
• Subhasinghe Hostel, Saliyapura

80
6.4 FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND SCHOLARSHIPS 
Mahapola scholarship 
The Mahapola Trust Fund of the Ministry of Trade and Shipping awards Mahapola Scholarships to 
selected students entering the university.
University bursary assistance scheme 
Bursary assistance is awarded to selected students not receiving the Mahapola scholarship.
Saubhagya students' scholarship scheme (SSSS) 
In addition to Mahapola and university bursary assistance schemes, students can apply for the faculty 
Saubhagya students' scholarship scheme, which operates under the guidance of Dr. D M P L K Abeyrathna
(Coordinator of Saubhagya students' scholarship scheme). More details could be obtained from the 
department of Family Medicine.
6.5 LIBRARY 
Library services were described in 2.9.1 under academic supporting centres. The medical faculty 
library is open to users from 08.30 am to 10.00 pm from Monday-Friday and from 08.30 am to 5.00 
pm on weekends and public holidays (except on Poya days, Christmas and new year holidays). The 
professorial unit library is open to users from 11.45 am to 10.00 pm from Monday to Friday and from 
08.30 am to 5.00 pm on weekends.
6.6 READING ROOM 
The reading room is a part of the library designated for quiet, individual study. The room is fully 
covered by the Wi-Fi network and most tables have nearby electrical outlets. Opening hours are similar 
to the library opening hours.
6.7 INTERNET SERVICES AND COMPUTER LABORATORY 
All the departments of the faculty and library is equipped with the 4 Mbps internet connections and 
additional Wi-Fi facilities. Wi-Fi zones are operated in student canteen, common rooms and almost all 
open lobbies of the faculty. These facilities are to be used strictly for educational activities. 
6.8 FACULTY WEBSITE 
The faculty website is intended to provide information, materials, and guidance for all academic 
work. Information on all the administrative and supportive services are available in this website. This 
website is regularly updated, and students are expected to access the website to get the recent 
updates and important news. Faculty website can be accessed at www.fmas.rjt.ac.lk/.

81
6.9 FACULTY CELL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE 
TEACHING 
The faculty cell of the department of English language teaching comes under the purview of the 
Department of English Language Teaching, Mihintale. The predominant focus of the department of 
English language teaching is to enhance the English language proficiency of the undergraduates, which 
permits them to shape their personality as skilful professionals along with refined communication skills 
in English. In terms of the services provided by the faculty cell of the department of English language 
Teaching, students have access to an English language laboratory at the main campus, Mihintale where 
they are able to study under the guidance of qualified instructors. 
6.10 CAFETERIA FACILITIES 
Canteens in the faculty and professorial unit 
The canteen in the faculty provides breakfast, lunch and dinner at concessionary rates in addition to 
snacks and beverages.
Milk bar 
The milk bar in the faculty premises is kept open on weekdays and provides snacks and beverages at 
a reasonable price.
6.11 DRINKING WATER FACILITIES
There is water purified by reverse osmosis (RO) technique available at all the canteens and student 
hostels.
6.12 SPORTS FACILITIES 
Sports facilities for badminton, netball, volleyball and cricket etc. are provided under the guidance of 
the director of physical education. Students can engage in outdoor sports in the sports ground located 
within the faculty premises.
6.13 CULTURAL ACTIVITIES 
An active cultural centre operates in the main campus Mihintale, and the students are encouraged to 
make maximum use of this facility.
6.14 BANKING FACILITIES 
Financial transaction facilities can be obtained via a Bank of Ceylon (BOC) ATM outlet located just 
outside the faculty premises.

82
6.15 POSTAL SERVICES 
Postal services can be obtained via the sub-post office located in the faculty premises.
6.16 OTHER FACILITIES 
Photocopy and printing facilities at a low cost are available in the photocopy center in the canteen 
area of the faculty. The Professorial unit comprises facilities such as an air-conditioned auditorium, 
seminar halls and laboratories.
6.17 STUDENTS’ UNION 
The medical students' union is the main student body and the legal association representing medical 
students of the faculty. Advocating for students' interests and concerns in academic and administrative 
matters, the medical students' union plays a crucial role in safeguarding students' rights, be it related 
to academic policies, university facilities, or other matters affecting student well-being. Providing 
services such as welfare facilities, academic support, financial assistance, and access to resources, the 
Medical Students' Union enhances the overall student experience. Organizing social, cultural, sports, 
and educational events, the medical students' union contributes to a vibrant university life, offering 
students opportunities for personal and intellectual growth. Through these events, students can build 
networks with peers and society, creating connections that prove beneficial in both academic and 
professional pursuits.
President Mr. R M C P B Rajakaruna
Secretary Mr. M M Wickramasinghe
Vice President Mr. W S Nissanka
Editor Mr. W K Dilshan
Junior Treasurer Mr. L N R Lekamge
Committee members: 
Mr. W M S S Bandara Mr. R M O Vishvajith
Mr. P H A V Herath Mr. L M Amjadh
Ms. W K K S Weththewa Ms. M A C U Gunaratne
Mr. B M R R J Bandaranayake Mr. R K D D De Silva
 
Senior Treasurer 
Prof. N K A Silva
6.18 FACULTY ACADEMIC MENTORING PROGRAMME 
There will be a continuous mentoring programme and special mentoring programme for all the 
undergraduate students and all the members of the academic staff will be appointed as the mentors 
for the above-mentioned programme.

83
Goals of the programme 
1. Promote students’ self-confidence and development of critical thinking/decision-making skills. 
2. Personalize and humanize the university experience, especially providing support at the 
stressful time of transition from school life. 
3. Identify each student’s learning style, helping them meet the intellectual challenges of the 
university and take advantage of its resources. 
4. Foster maximum academic, personal, and professional growth.
 
6.19 FACILITIES FOR DIFFERENTLY-ABLED STUDENTS
FMAS, RUSL, is committed to ensuring opportunity and an environment that enables and enhances 
the educational experience of differently-abled students on the same basis as other members of the 
University community in an environment that values diversity, is free from harassment, unlawful 
discrimination and promotes justice, equality of opportunity.
FMAS is committed to creating an inclusive, safe and supportive environment for all students and staff 
regardless of disability (or other protected characteristic) to support a positive experience for all 
members of the faculty. FMAS encourages a climate of openness and positive disclosure for students 
and staff with disabilities, including mental health difficulties; nevertheless, it is acknowledged that 
students and staff may find it difficult to disclose disabilities including mental health difficulties. All 
disclosed disability information is kept confidentially, and sensitive personal data is only shared with 
the person’s consent (unless it is deemed that they or others are at risk of harm) with university services, 
such as student counselling, health-care team, security and administrative officers, who may be 
responsible for supporting that individual. Please contact any academic staff member, student 
counsellors, or your mentor for further assistance.
6.20 CAREER GUIDANCE 
The career guidance section of the FMAS coordinates the activities conducted by the career guidance 
unit (CGU), RUSL. It organizes career guidance workshop for medical graduates, Out bound training 
(OBT) for medical undergraduates, and online webinars on curriculum vitae preparation, how-to-face 
interviews, soft skills training etc. for medical undergraduates.
Faculty Coordinator Dr D M P L K Abeyrathna (MBBS), Lecturer (Probationary), Department of 
Family Medicine 
 
 
 
 
 

84
 
 
 
“University life is about far more than just getting a degree; it is about meeting and working with people, 
having fun and most of all, growing up to be a responsible citizen.” 
The academic programme for the undergraduates of FMAS takes place within the faculty premises as 
well as the THA and field practice areas. In addition to timetabled teaching/learning activities, students 
are encouraged to pursue their interests in research, sports, religious activities and performing arts.
 7. RECREATION 

85
 
 
 
 
8.1 TEACHING HOSPITAL ANURADHAPURA (THA) 
THA is the third largest hospital in Sri Lanka and is situated in Anuradhapura city, 8 km away from the 
faculty. It serves as the main referral centre in the North Central province. THA has a capacity of nearly 
2,200 beds. In 2021, it served 110,871 and 135,072 individuals on an out-patient and in-patient basis 
respectively. It played a major role in functioning as a trauma management hospital caring for war 
casualties in the last stage of the humanitarian war in Sri Lanka. THA is the principal clinical teaching 
facility of the faculty. List of consultants at THA is given in Table 15. 
 
General information 
Telephone: +9425 2222261-3, +9425 2224810
Fax +9425 2225616
 
Director Dr. N C D Ariyarathna
Deputy Director Dr. P S Ranaweera
Table 15: List of consultants at THA 
1 Dr. L P V P Kerner Consultant Anaesthetist
2 Dr. I C Gebalange Act. Consultant Anaesthetist 
3 Dr. W M C Bandara Act. Consultant Anaesthetist 
4 Dr. K C D Senevirathna Consultant Blood Transfusion Physician
5 Dr. S S Wickramasinghe Consultant Cardiologist
6 Dr. A Jegavanthan Consultant Cardiologist
7 Dr. G T G Fernando Consultant Cardiologist
8 Dr. I H D S Prabhath Consultant Cardiac Electrophysiologist
9 Dr. H T N Hewageegana Consultant Chemical Pathologist
10 Dr. U A G H Wickramasuriya Consultant Clinical Microbiologist
11 Dr. W M S K W De Silva Consultant Clinical Nutrition
12 Dr. D G Punchihewa Act. Consultant Critical Care Medicine
13 Dr. U G H Ishan Act. Consultant Critical Care Medicine
14 Dr. H M Mayuri Act. Consultant Dental Restorative
15 Dr. H S Sudusinghe Consultant Dermatologist
16 Dr. G H D C Janappriya Consultant Dermatologist 
 8. AFFILIATED HOSPITALS AND FIELD PRACTICE AREAS 

86
17 Dr. H G P L G M Arachchige Consultant ENT Surgeon
18 Dr. L A D N Udayangani Consultant ENT Surgeon
19 Dr. G A D P Weerasinghe Consultant Emergency Medicine
20 Dr. S D G S Dharmasena Act. Consultant Emergency Medicine
21 Dr. S A I U Jayawardana Act. Consultant Endocrinologist
22 Dr. H D J De Zoysa Act. Consultant Endocrinologist 
23 Dr. G C V De Silva Consultant Gastroenterologist
24 Dr. A M B D Bandara Act. Consultant GI Surgeon
25 Dr. M A Anomilan Consultant Genitourinary Surgeon
26 Dr. S Prasanna Act. Consultant Genitourinary Surgeon
27 Dr. K M M Kulasekara Consultant General Surgeon
28 Dr. L S Chathuranga Act. Consultant General Surgeon
29 Dr. C D Dampage Consultant General Surgeon 
30 Dr. S Visagan Consultant gynecologic oncology Surgeon
31 Dr. K A D S Jayarathna Consultant Haematologist
32 Dr. M A E Amarasena Consultant Haematologist
33 Dr. N J Asanthi Consultant Histopathologist
34 Dr. G H P Gayani Consultant Histopathologist
35 Dr. M M A C Gunathilaka Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
36 Dr. M S M Senathunga Consultant Judicial Medical Officer
37 Dr. M R S U C Ranawaka Consultant Neonatologist
38 Dr. H M R Indika Prasad Act. Consultant Neonatologist
39 Dr. W A A G N Nishanthi Consultant Nephrologist
40 Dr. A A R Deepani Alahakoon Act. Consultant Nephrologist
41 Dr. H P M C Caldera Consultant Neurologist 
42 Dr. W M M Boteju Act. Consultant Neurologist
43 Dr. Y H H Gunathilaka Act. Consultant Neurosurgeon
44 Dr. P Pirakash Act. Consultant Neurosurgeon 
45 Dr. N M Vithanage Act. Consultant Neuroradiologist
46 Dr. J M Subasinghe Consultant Orthodontist
47 Dr. C Athukorala Consultant OMF Surgeon
48 Dr. K M B M Weerasingha Consultant Ophthalmologist
49 Dr. A K R Anthoy Consultant Ophthalmologist
50 Dr. Waruna Wijayasiriwardana Consultant Ophthalmologist
51 Dr. R S Walpitagamage Ophthalmologist (Act. Specialist in Corneal & Eye 
Disease) 
52 Dr. K Sairam Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon
53 Dr. G A L Niroshana Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon
54 Dr. N A K M Nettikumara Consultant Oncologist
55 Dr. P Sasikala Consultant Oncologist
56 Dr. P Y A Anuja N Kumarasinghe Consultant Onco Surgeon
57 Dr. Y Prasanthan Act. Consultant Onco Surgeon
58 Dr. M M N N Senevirathna Consultant Physician
59 Dr. N P Premawardana Consultant Physician
60 Dr. S D N Senadhera Consultant Physician

87
61 Dr. C Pothmulla Consultant Physician
62 Dr. M Jevon Yudhishdran Consultant Physician
63 Dr. S Jeyalakshmy Consultant Physician 
64 Dr. D I V Fernando Consultant Physician Resident Physician
65 Dr. N K B S S Narasinghe Act. Consultant Physician (VP-OPD) 
66 Dr. R K L H Randeny Consultant Psychiatrist
67 Dr. K K M D Chandradasa Consultant Paediatrician
68 Dr. T U N De Silva Consultant Paediatrician
69 Dr. H S P Fernando Consultant Paediatrician
70 Dr. G J N Widanage Consultant Paediatric Ophthalmology
71 Dr. M A M Kulasinghe Consultant Paediatric Surgeon
72 Dr. M A D Rangana Act. Consultant Paediatric Nephrologist 
73 Dr. K P M S Hemachandra Act. Consultant Paediatric Neurologist
74 Dr. K Nirash Nilanga Fernando Act. Consultant Community Paediatric
75 Dr. U M M Aaqiff Act. Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist
76 Dr. M S K Cooray Act. Consultant Paediatric Intensivist
77 Dr. W K C R Warsapperuma Asso. Specialist Paediatric Pulmonologist
78 Dr. K D S K Savithri Act. Consultant Paediatric Pulmonologist
79 Dr. N P G C R Notunna Act. Consultant Paediatric Endocrinologist
80 Dr. M Kaviratna Consultant Radiologist
81 Dr. K G M B S Gurunayaka Consultant Radiologist
82 Dr. G K K Sewwandi Act. Consultant Rehabilitation Medicine
83 Dr. T K Iddamalgoda Act. Consultant Interventional Radiologist
84 Dr. D A Somathilake Act. Consultant Rheumatologist
85 Dr. P T M A Nanayakkara Act. Consultant Respiratory Physician
86 Dr. M M T C Bandara Act. Consultant Respiratory Physician
87 Dr. M G D G Wijewardhana Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
88 Dr. V G R Senaka Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
89 Dr. D Biyagama Consultant Resident Obstetrician and 
Gynaecologist
90 Dr. B A D Rubahan Consultant Vascular and Transplant Surgeon 
91 Dr. C S Botenne Act. Consultant Virologist 
92 Dr. J M W Wajirani Consultant Vitreo Retinal Surgeon
 
Consultants at professorial unit: 
 
1 Snr. Prof. SH Siribaddana Chair Professor of Medicine
2 Dr. MRP Weerawansa Consultant Physician
3 Dr. RDNC Sarathchandra Consultant Physician
4 Dr. AMAHMS Senanayake Consultant Physician
5 Dr. WMYL Wijekoon Consultant Physician (Acting)
6 Prof. SPB Thalgaspitiya Chair Professor of Surgery
7 Dr. S Srishankar Consultant General Surgeon
8 Dr. WSMKJ Senanayake Consultant General Surgeon 

88
9 Dr. AB Jayathilake Consultant General Surgeon 
10 Dr. NP Hettigama Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
11 Dr. DMA Kumara Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist
12 Dr. SANA Suraweera Consultant Paediatrician
13 Dr. GHI Dharshika Consultant Paediatrician (Acting)
14 Dr. Dr. WMM Arambepola Consultant Paediatrician
15 Dr. L.L. Amila Isuru Consultant Psychiatrist
16 Dr. S.M.B.H. Abeyratne Consultant Psychiatrist (Acting)
17 Dr. K.A.D.L.P. Kariyawasam Consultant Anaesthetist
8.2 FIELD PRACTICE AREAS, HOSPITALS AND CENTRES 
1. Base Hospital Thambuththegama
2. District Hospital Rambewa
3. Divisional Hospital Rajanganaya Yaya 5
4. Divisional Hospital Thammannawa
5. Teaching Hospital Polonnaruwa
6. Medical Registrar Office, Anuradhapura
7. MOH Mihintale
8. MOH Nochchiyagama
9. MOH Nuwaragampalatha Central
10. MOH Nuwaragampalatha East
11. MOH Rajanganaya
12. MOH Thalawa
13. MOH Thirappane
14. PMCU Puliyankulama
15. Rajarata Medical Center (Private General Practice)
16. Regional Director of Health Office, Anuradhapura
17. Water Treatment Plant, Thuruvila
 

89
 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM FOR SPECIAL LEAVE
(For all students registered in the Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences, Rajarata University of Sri 
Lanka) 
** Includes: Leave for overseas travel 
Any other leave of absence from academic activities for more than one week 
1. Full name of applicant:
……………………………………….……………………………………….……………………
…………
2. Registration No.: ………………………………………. 
3. National Identity Card No.: …………………………………. 
4. Purpose for which the leave is applied for 
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………….……………………………………….……………………
………………….………………………….…………….……………………………………….…
…………………………………….……………………………………….………………………
……………….……………………………………….……………………………………….……
………………………………….
5. Duration of leave requested: From …………………….. To ..………………… 
6. Are there academic activities scheduled for your batch, during the period of leave applied for: 
Yes/No 
7. If yes, give details of arrangements to cover academic activities (attach relevant letters)
………………………………………………………………………………………………………
… 
8. If No, provide proof by attaching a copy of the timetable/academic schedule relevant to you for 
the specified period, certified by the Registrar. 
9. I hereby declare that the information I have supplied in this form is correct. 
Signature of the applicant: ………………………………………. Date:
……………………………………………..
__________________________________________________________________________________
For Office Use Only 
Application accepted on: ……………………………………………….. 
Faculty Board Approval: Recommended/Not recommended Date:
………………..……………………………
Signature of Dean: …………………………………. Date:
………………..……………………………
Reference number: …………………………………. Date stamp:
 ANNEXURE 1 

90
PROHIBITION OF RAGGING AND OTHER FORMS OF VIOLENCE IN EDUCATIONAL 
INSTITUTIONS 
An act to eliminate ragging and other forms of violence, and cruel, inhuman and degrading 
treatment, from educational institutions
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic, Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:
29th April, 1998
Short title. 1. This Act may be cited as the Prohibition of Ragging and Other Forms of Violence 
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998.
Ragging. 2.
(1) Any person who commits, or participates in; ragging, within or outside an 
educational institution, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on 
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable, to rigorous 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years and may also be ordered to pay 
compensation of an amount determined by court, to the person in respect of 
whom the offence was committed for the injuries caused to such person.
(2) A person who, whilst committing ragging causes sexual harassment or grievous 
hurt to any student or a member of the staff, of an educational institution shall be 
guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial 
before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years 
and may -also be ordered to pay compensation of an amount determined by court, 
to the person in respect of whom the offence was committed for the injuries 
caused to such person.
Criminal 
intimidation,
3. Any person who, within or outside an educational institution, threatens, verbally 
or in writing, to cause injury to the person, reputation or property of any student or 
a member of the staff, of all educational institution (in this section referred to as “the 
victim”) or to the person, reputation or property of some other person in whom the 
victim is interested, with the intention of causing fear in the victim or of compelling 
the victim to do any act which the victim is not legally required to do, or to omit to 
do any act which the victim is entitled to do, shall be guilty of an offence under this 
Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to 
rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.
Hostage 
taking.
4. Any person who does any act by which the personal liberty and the freedom of 
movement of any student or a member of the staff of an educational institution or 
other person within such educational institution or any premises under the 
management and control of such educational institution, is restrained without lawful 
justification and for the purpose of forcing such student, member of the staff or 
 ANNEXURE 2 

91
person to take a particular course of action, shall be guilty of an offence under this 
Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to 
rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
Wrongful 
restraint.
5. Any person who unlawfully obstructs any student or a member of the staff of an 
educational institution, in such a manner as to prevent such student or member of 
the staff from proceeding in any direction in which such student or member of the 
staff, has a right to proceed, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on 
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to rigorous 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
Unlawful 
confinement.
6. Any person who unlawfully restrains any student or a member of the staff of an 
educational institution in such a manner as to prevent such student or member of 
the staff from proceeding beyond certain circumscribing limits, shall be guilty of an 
offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a 
Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
Forcible 
occupation 
and damage 
to property 
of an 
educational 
institution.
7.
(1) Any person who, without lawful excuse, occupies, by force, any premises of, 
or under the management or control of, an educational institution shall be guilty 
of an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after summary trial before a 
Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to a 
fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.
(2) Any person who causes mischief in respect of any property of, or under the 
management or control of, an educational institution shall be guilty of an offence 
under this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be
liable to imprisonment for a term to not exceeding twenty years and a fine of five 
thousand rupees or three times the amount of the loss or damage caused to such 
property, whichever amount is higher.
Orders of 
expulsion or 
dismissal.
8. Where a person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the court may, having 
regard to the gravity of the offence” ‘
(a) in any case where the person convicted is a student of an educational 
institution, order that such person be expelled from such institution;
(b) in any case,rg where the person convicted is a member of the staff of an 
educational institution, order that such person be dismissed from such educational 
institution.
Bail. 9.
(1) A person suspected or accused of committing an offence under subsection 
(2) of section 2 or section 4 of this Act shall not be released on bail except by the 
judge of a High Court established by Article 154P of the Constitution. In 

92
exercising his discretion to grant bail such Judge shall have regard to the 
provisions of section 14 of the Bail Act, No. 30 of 1997.
(2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (2) of section 2 
or section 4 of this Act, and an appeal is preferred against such conviction, the 
Court convicting such person may, taking into consideration the gravity of the 
offence and the antecedents of the person convicted, either release or refuse to 
release, such person on bail.
Certain Provisions 
of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure 
Act not to apply to 
persons convicted 
or found guilty of 
an offence under 
this Act.
10. Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No, 15 
of 1979″
(a) the provisions of section 303 of that Act shall not apply in the case of 
any person who is convicted,
(b) the provisions of section 306 of that Act shall not apply in the case of 
any person who pleads or is found guilty,
by or before any court of any offence under subsection (2) of section 2 or 
section 4 of this Act.
Offences under this 
Act deemed to be 
cognizable 
offences.
11. All offences under this Act shall be deemed to be cognizable Offences 
for the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, notwithstanding anything contained in the 
First Schedule to that Act.
Certificate. 12. Where in any prosecution for an offence under this Act, a question arises 
whether any person is a student or a member of the staff of an educational institution 
or whether any premises or property is the property of, or is under the management 
and control of, an educational institution a certificate purporting to be under the 
hand of the head or other officer of such educational institution to the effect that the 
person named therein is a student or a member of the staff of such educational 
institution, or that the premises or property specified therein is the property of, or is 
under the management and control of, such educational institution, shall be 
admissible in evidence without proof of signature and shall be prima facie evidence 
of the facts stated therein.
Admissibility 
of statement 
in evidence.
13.
(1) If in the course, of a trial for an offence under this Act, any witness shall on 
any material point contradict either expressly or by necessary implication a 
statement previously given by him in the course of any investigation into such 
offence, it shall be lawful for the Magistrate if, after due inquiry into the 
circumstances in which the statement was inside, he considers it safe and just ”

93
(a) to act upon the statement given by the witness in the course of the 
investigation, if such statement is corroborated in material particulars by 
evidence from an independent source; and
(b) to have such witness at the conclusion of such trial, tried before such 
court upon a charge for intentionally giving false evidence in a stage of a 
judicial proceeding,
(2) At any trial under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) it shall be sufficient to prove 
that the accused made the contradictory statements alleged in the charge and it 
shall not by necessary to prove which of such statements is false.
Provisions of this Act 
to be in addition to 
and not in derogation 
of the provisions of 
the Penal Code & c.
14. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation 
of, the provisions of the Penal Code, the Convention Against Torture and 
Oilier Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment Act, No. 22 
of 1994 or any other law.
Priority for 
trials and 
appeals 
under this 
Act.
15. Every Court shall give priority to the trial of any person charged with any 
offence under this Act and to the bearing of any appeal from the conviction of any 
person for appeals under any such offence and any sentence imposed on such 
conviction.
Sinhala text 
to Prevail in 
case of 
inconsistency
17. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires ”
“criminal force”, “fear”, “force”, “grievous hurt”, “hurt” and “mischief shall have the 
respective meanings assigned to them in the Penal Code;
“educational institution” means –
(a) a Higher Educational Institution;
(b) any other Institution recognized under Chapter IV of the Universities Act, 
No, 16 of 1978;
(c) the Buddhist and Pali University established by the Buddhist and Pali 
University of Sri Lanka Act, No. 74 of 1981;
(d) the Buddha SravakaBhikku University, established by the Buddha 
SravakaBhikku University Act, No. 26 of 1996;
(e) any Institute registered under section 14 of the Tertiary and Vocational 
Education Act, No. 20 of 1990;
(f) any Advanced Technical Institute established under the Sri Lanka 
Institute- of Technical Education Act, No. 29 of 1995;

94
(g) a Pirivena registered under the Pirivena Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 
and receiving grants from State funds and includes a Pirivena Training 
Institute established under that Act;
(h) the Sri Lanka Law College;
(i) the National Institute of Education established; by the National Institute of 
Education Act, No.
(j) the College of Education established by the: Colleges of Education Act, No. 
30 of 1986, or a Training College;
(k) a Government school or an assisted school or an unaided school, within 
the meaning of the Education Ordinance (Chapter 185);
and includes any other institution established for the purpose of providing 
education, instruction or training;
“head of an educational institution” means the Vice- Canceller, Mahopadyaya, 
Director, President, Principal or any other person howsoever designated charged 
with the administration and management of the affairs of such educational 
institution;
“Higher Educational institution” has the meaning assigned to it in the Universities 
Act, No. 16 of 1978;
“ragging” means any act which causes or is likely to cause physical or 
psychological injury or mental pain or: fear to a student or a member of the staff of 
an educational institution;
“student” means a student of an educational institution;
“sexual harassment” means the use of criminal force, words or actions to cause 
sexual annoyance or harassment to a student or a member of the staff, of an 
educational institution;

80

Faculty of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Rajarata University of Sri Lanka, Jaffna road, Saliyapura, 
Sri Lanka, 50008
Web: https://fmas.rjt.ac.lk/
Phone: +9425 2226276, Fax: +9425 2234464